## `~taglux-nidsep`
`~pittyp-datfyn`, I've gone back and read everything more carefully.  Great explanation!  Most everything you write here makes perfect sense.

What isn't clear to me is how to handle the issues you raise in the footnotes.  This probably has something to do with my CS ignorance, but I'm having trouble seeing how we can disambiguate possible interpretations of a line.  For example:

    20: d 1 1 e  0 6 5 e

I (think I) can read this as any one of the following:

    dup lit 1 swap at 6 eq swap
    dup lit 1 swap at 65 swap
    dup lit 1e at 65e
    Etc.

And I'm sure with a little work I could come up with another example more devious than the one above.  If all we have to work with is 8 nybbles per "row" of memory, by what method can we disambiguate?

Here's one idea:  Immediately following each operator, the first nybble is says the length of the "string" of nibbles to be operated on.  So, e.g., `1 2 2 a` would mean "`lit [next two nibbles] 2 a`".  Or perhaps even better we start counting at '0' for string lengths, which I'm told is the canonical CS way---this has the virtue of allowing us to talk about 16-nibble strings.

This has limits still, because we can only address numbers that can be referred to with 16 nybbles digits.  Maybe that's good enough---those numbers are pretty big.  I don't know.

We could get around even that restriction by reserving `0` to indicate that more than one nybble is needed to express the length of the number to be operated on.  For example, `1 0 2 x x  x x....` could mean "`lit [next 17 [15 + 2] nybbles] (really long number here)`".

Another downside to this idea would by how much memory it would take up.  It effectively doubles the memory needed for most operators.  Maybe that's not sure a big deal, because it's only another half-byte each.  I wouldn't know.

What are your thoughts?

Two parting questions:

1.  Nock 11!??
2.  Why are we doing this (thoroughly enjoyable) exercise?  Does it have something to do with understanding the Urbit VM?  Or are we gonna make Nock real by having it run directly on silicon (with hints to call processor "jets" for things like decrement)?