## `~figdyl-fillut-tamsut-dovwyc--niblut-libmyl-dozbep-marzod`
I would love to hear a clearer articulation of what problem, exactly, Ethereum integration is meant to solve.

I heard: "What alternative for a trustless, decentralized PKI do you propose?"

Urbit was designed to be its own trustless decentralized PKI, and it can be one eventually. Why is a trustless decentralized PKI needed for Urbit at this stage? Judging by the last Star Sale, plenty of users seem willing to pay fiat USD dollars (via Square or whatever) in exchange for a "customer relationship" with Tlon Inc, a US-based corporation. We trusted all those intermediaries to process the payment and we trust Tlon to eventually deliver us some cyrptographic keys. We're willing to wait until Urbit is ready for that.
 
I understand that Tlon Inc is a corporation with obligations to its shareholders to generate revenue. Nothing wrong with that! So, if the true purpose of this "Ethereum Bootstrapping" is "Capitalize on 2017 ICO Fever by Converting Irrational Enthusiasm for Tokens into Revenues for Tlon Shareholders", then I can respect that. But it seems like this could be accomplished without sacrificing the purity of Urbit (which has been its hallmark, and competitive advantage, from the start). For example, you could write a whitepaper and sell Tokens which could be redeemed in the future for some hypothetical "hosted urbit" offering (which, thanks to the beauty of ICOs, need not actually materialize on any particular schedule, or indeed at all). 

Since this is a technical decision with profound consequences for the future of Urbit, and seems to be pretty controversial, perhaps it would be worth convening the Glactic Senate for its first-ever vote? If Urbit wishes to demonstrate its bona fides about respecting the judgment of its Galactic Senators, this would be a nice gesture. (Of course, Tlon is still a majority galaxy-holder, so the vote would be only symbolic.) 