## `~sorreg-namtyv`
First of all, this is amazing work and I really wish I'd reviewed it earlier.  By my failure I have disgraced not only myself, but my teacher and his teacher before him.

The descriptions of ++tank and ++re are not only completely correct, but set a very high documentation standard.  We need to find a way to move snippets like this into a more discoverable framework than the linear forum.

About the patch I'm not sure, simply because I'm not sure it's of any use to patch the existing production branch.  I think forward work should probably stay on the cc-release branch.  However, if the upgrade can be done cleanly and easily (not sure about the termios issue), and ~rolsut-rospub approves of it, I can't really object.

(Note that it's actually a virtue for the purpose of live upgrades that we do as much transcoding as possible in dill -- we can upgrade dill but not vere, after all!  I agree that it's architecturally wrong, however.)

As for specific next steps: I think a tanq with [$~ $~ styx] is exactly the right direction to go.  We would need a ++re (++qe?) for it.

Everyone thinks \/ windowing is retarded and they're probably right.  I am not sure what the case for line wrapping is, though, in the absence of windowing.  Any complex tree will use left-indentation internally, so it should be exposed to the outside interface.

Once old ++tank has been thoroughly executed in cc-release (and if we don't kill it now, we'll never kill it), the names can be changed.  I apologize for the overengineering of ++tank -- it's very old code, for obvious reasons. 