## `~ravmel-ropdyl`
@`~fasmel_marzod` — 

Good questions.

1 - That's more or less the idea.  We provide the basic components for consuming third party data, including the tools for setting up API connections.  Doing that in really refined, mature way is off in the future — but we'll get there.

2 - In general, yes.  You need to provide a way for us to map data from your endpoints to Urbit data.  We provide the machinery for handling the requests, and all we need to know is what kind of data we're getting and how to turn it into something well-typed.  In concrete: you write <100 lines of Hoon.  For existing services, someone else has probably already done this, and it's shared on the network.

@`~sigrut_wanzod` —
Sorry, this post isn't really the greatest 'getting started' guide.  Try [urbit.org/docs/using/install/](http://urbit.org/docs/using/install/).  Today Urbit is mostly just fun to play with.  Those who get hooked tend to help mature the system as a whole.  Or just build fun things like [~Talkbot](https://github.com/Fang-/talkbot).

It's true that the Hoon learning curve can be really challenging at first.  We've long debated how to balance using familiar terms vs introducing our own terms.  In the long run, the concepts are slightly different.  So it can be confusing.  Having seen plenty of people learn to program in Hoon I can at least say that it's possible.  We're around to help on `:talk`, and would be glad to discuss how the docs can be improved.

@`~pinrys_wanzod` — 
We **absolutely** plan to continue rewarding early contributors.  They have been a huge help to us.  The question is just how to do it in a way that's fair.  We'll figure it out!  And plan to continue issuing rewards.

