## `~ponnys-podfer`
General comments:

For gates like "swith" and "ewith", if you've already blown through the four character names which can be represented in 31 bits, I think you should just go full out with "starts-with" and "ends-with" since vere is going to be allocating bignums anyway.

I think that you shouldn't be trying to fit the names into four characters in the first place. For names like "cany" or "call", expanding them to "contains-any" or "contains-all" is much more readable. Since this is a userspace library, I don't think you should be worrying about the overhead of names; especially since you're handing off to jetted tape implementations in most cases. Code is meant to be read; it is only incidental that it is executed by a computer.

I think this shouldn't be a door. I find that:

```
        (contains:string "blah" "b")
```

is much clearer than:

```
        (~(contains string "blah") "b")
```

Though I acknowledge that that might just be me.

A lot of your implementations are probably better than the ones I was working on; I find your usage of parser combinators for most string functions to be fairly elegant. (And all the combinator stuff appears to be jetted so it should be faster than the naive character by character approach in raw hoon!)

I like that you documented all of this inline in the library; I'd love to see hoon.hoon documented like this. (Python docstrings were a _really_ good idea, and I'm currently trying to add doccords as a language feature of hoon to standardize what you're doing as a practice, but accessible to tooling.)
