## `~fodwyt-nimbus`
I suppose you're referring to some kind of local reasoning, not the [technical term](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Partial_evaluation)? But if you are talking about true partial evaluation, hoon is a pure expression language and a fair amount of the subject for an arm (the ++ sections) will be fixed by the type system. Relatively little (none?) of that kind of optimization is done at the hoon level -- hoon expressions are compiled very straightforwardly into nock. But if you have the span/type of your dojo subject (you do) and a twig, you could probably use the machinery in ++ut to figure out an awful lot. Not saying it would be easy.

I'm not really willing to do a writeup on the current state of affairs - it's a lot of writing, and I'd rather be writing code. I'll give you some bullet points though.

* the core nock execution engine is based on graal/truffle (googlable names) and is written in Java
* pure nock execution is pretty fast, enough to eliminate the need for many of the jets used in vere (the list function jets, for example). Parsing in jaque is completely unjetted and competes favorably with vere.
* jets are also written in java, and can make use of truffle annotations for possibly extreme speeds (research pending)
* jaque can currently boot an urbit pill, +solid a new one, run :dojo and :talk, and (as of today) be ctrl-c'd in the middle of a computation (not as trivial as it sounds). 
* Persistence across process runs with journalling/snapshots is functioning. 
* there is not yet any support for ames and only bad/commented out http support, but that is coming soon.
* you probably shouldn't try running it yet - graal uses a special jvm right now (although it is slated for inclusion in Java 9) and it's kind of a pain to get a working environment up. When everything's working, I'll make some effort to document the setup.