## `~bismeb-tapseb-lomduc-davpet--daltyv-rabsym-dozdev-samzod`
(We emailed about this, but figured I'd post some other thoughts here)

This is a good question, and it's something we talk and think about a lot. I don't think we have a **final** answer, but I think we have a pretty clear idea of what we want to do next. I'll try to summarize our thoughts here.

Basically, most of the Urbit experience involves navigating around between static pages and interacting with streams of data from Talk. Currently Tree does this in a way that's far too complicated (so it's going away). Some of the architecture is sticking around, but it's being written from scratch.

An Urbit page, like `http://your-urbit.urbit.org/some/file` is a function of some underlying data, like `http://your-urbit.urbit.org/some/file.md`. The page is, in effect, completely static. Even when it contains siblings, since they can be compiled in using Ford.

Talk is (of course) not static at all. We get its state via an `urb.bind` subscription. In order to get Talk notifications without reinitializing the subscription on every page reload, we're implementing a simple router that allows the user to navigate between URLs without restarting that connection.

This means that an Udon-generated page can also include JSX-style `<components>` that use React. These components can then use the always-on Talk connection to render data / chats and so on.

So, we will ship an updated SPA-style interface. But it's more like an SPA-lite where each page can be rendered in a single call to the server. (Which should get page load time down a lot and make caching easier). 

You can extend this framework by just building individual `<component>`s and extending our JS. Tree actually has an interface for this already, and we'll implement something similar. 

So, presently, there are two ways of building user-facing, browser-based Urbit apps: you can build `<component>`s that live on html / markdown / udon pages and integrate with our existing code. Or you can go completely outside of this framework and build your own SPA. You'll need to change the default renderer to do this, or use `/pages`. I'd be open to changing that if it seems that people really prefer to just build their own SPAs.

In the long run, I do strongly feel that what we want is to build a unified UI in the spirit of WeChat (but hopefully more like UIKit). The UI complexity of switching between multiple apps is really awful, if you ask me. I think we can do better. Our current architecture is a step in that direction, but it's just a start.

Oh, also, have you seen [github.com/urbit/base-css](https://github.com/urbit/base-css)? That's also related to the upcoming overhaul.