## `~pittyp-datfyn`
Going through this with commentary:

```
&--. mime
|\  \
| |  .js /===/mar/urb/wasp-data
| |
| ;script:"/~/on/{<dep>}.js"
* urb
```

The final `mime` result is obtained from the `urb` consolidated page, and uses the eyre `/~/on` API via the `/mar/urb/wasp-data.js` library to provide automatic reload.

```
* urb
|\
| .hoon !hymn /%/
|
* urb-tree
```

`ren/urb` short-circuits to render `%/web/pages/*.hoon` without interference, and otherwise defers to `ren/urb-tree`.

```
* urb-tree
|\
| \-* tree-head /===/
|
* tree-body
```

`ren/urb/tree` combines a static `tree-head`, which will go in the `<head>` of
the generated webpage, with `tree-body` which comprises the `<body>`

```
* tree-body
|\
| }  /%%/
|/
* tree-json
```

`ren/tree/body` takes a relatively empty page, and injects `tree-json` for the
current path and also the parent one. (This is used primarily for displaying 
"siblings" in the navigation sidebar)

```
* tree-json
|\
| }  /%/{@}
|/
* tree-include
```

`ren/tree/json` includes a layer of children, for aforementioned sibling display
and also to make `<List>` and such work. It also encodes as json the native-hoon
representations of the various fields used.

`.tree-json` is also the api endpoint queried to implement the turbolinks-like
behavior of tree, where unvisited pages are pulled in as data instead of using a
browser page reload.

```
* tree-include
|\
| }  /===/web/404
|/
*---------- tree-combine
```

`ren/tree/include` serves a `404.md` alternative when the direct `web/` path
doesn't resolve. It otherwise proxies `tree-combine`

```
*---------- tree-combine
|\ \ \ \ \ \
```

`ren/tree/combine` fans out to various filters on the raw markdown,
to statically compute all possible queries used by the various custom elements.

They are as follows:

```
|\ \ \ \ \ \
| | | | | | &mime
| | | | | | |
| | | | | | .md /%/
```

The `mime` key is just raw plaintext representation of the underlying json.

```
| | | | | |
| | | | | * tree-comments
| | | | | |
| | | | | &elem
| | | | | |
| | | | | .md /%/comments/{@da}
```

The `comments` key goes to `ren/tree/comments`, which consolidates all
`./comments/{$date}.md` for any given page. This is used in fora and blog posts.

```
| | | | |
| | | | &plan-json
| | | | |
| | | | .plan /%/
```

The `plan` key is a `.plan` file, rendered on the top level `/=home=/web.md` page.

```
| | | |
| | | &json
| | | &front
| | | &down
| | | |
| | | .md /%/
```

The `meta` is `.front` "frontmatter" encoded in a trivial yaml subset,
controlling the presence of comments/ next-previous buttons/ etc, and other
styling. [`BodyComponent`](https://github.com/urbit/tree/blob/master/js/components/BodyComponent.coffee)
would be a good place to start looking for a list of those.

```
| | |
| |  }  &snip
| |_/
|/|
```

The `snip` key abbreviates a page to the first line or so, and is used in
`<List dataPreview/>` components in the docs.

```
| |
| * tree-index
|  }  (getall %h1-h6)
| /
|/
```

The `sect` key lists the `<h[1-6]>` elements on a page; used for `<Search>` aka
table of contents.

```
* tree-elem
|\
| .hoon !elem /%/
```

And finally, `ren/tree/elem` executes `.hoon` files *outside* of `web/pages` as
tree modules, using hoon as a templating language. Web talk and dojo are the
users of this last-minute diversion.

```
|
&elem
&down
|
.md /%/
```

Everything else is converted from markdown, using the `down` structured md format
to invoke the jetted CommonMark parser.