## `~fannyl-hassum-midret-hilmeb--mitnyr-sopdyn-dozsen-marzod`
~divmec-panfec,

Yes, clay will take a bit longer, as the primary focus is using plato 
to enable efficient learning of nock and hoon, i.e. just being able to run code straight away without hacking on as of yet rather slow console. 

Another thing is that apart from this, we also should have urbit integration 
in Atom editor, which is the "real" IDE, and already provides hoon mode and tooltips for runes. 
Adding hooking into clay won't be any more difficult and perhaps even easier than for Plato.

I am not sure if our goal should be to re-implement much of the functionality already provided by it Atom in Plato. 

The way I see it:
- Plato: suitable for short projects, proof of concepts, showcases, bugs, quick brainstorming. 
  Essentially codepen (HTML stack)/ellie (Elm) equivalent for Urbit ecosystem. 
- Atom: fully featured id for serious development of larger projects.
- Plato will also provide essential on-boarding experience, much better than forcing people 
to meticulously type code in dojo.

That said I am not sure if it makes much sense to re-implement tabs and all that in Plato, 
as it exists in Atom already. But having clay integration this would also be very useful, so I guess we would eventually add tabs too. But we definitely should not be writing an Atom/Emacs replacement. 

I would like to specifically limit the scope of available features so that it won't get out of control. 
Tabs are still reasonable, but perhaps we should not go much further than that. Otherwise people will soon demand an Emacs in Plato ;-)

Eventually I would like to have:
- Clay integration 
- Tabs
- syntax errors (just sourcing from the ford output)
- MAYBE (a huge if) in-editor documentation. Unsure yet if difficult to 
  do. And docstrings AFAIK are not in hoon yet.

Unrelated is the social aspect (vide Codepen).
We will definitely be getting a "Hoonhub" of featured "Hoonbites"  code discussions etc. etc. 
Basically I hope we will bootstrap a vibrant environment of Nock wizards, Hoon Engineers
capable of nurturing newbies and helping them achieve proficiency in Hoon in short time. 

~ponmep-litsem