---
type: post
date: ~2018.1.20..20.41.48..9691
title: Eval is slow - can I get a hint?
author: ~fodwyt-ragful
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

A scheme program, at the toplevel, is a list of definitions.

```
    (define (is-even? n)
      (or (= n 0)
          (is-odd? (- n 1))))
    
    (define (is-odd? n)
      (and (not (= n 0))
           (is-even (- n 1))))
```

Many of the call sites in typical programs have the general character of calling some *named* piece of code. That's very handy when writing a compiler, since it allows you to emit a direct jump to some other compiled piece of code. Or, if it
is a tail call to the function currently being defined, you can even compile to a loop, which can be dramatically faster
than a function call.

The fundamental character of nock however is that everything is built out of eval - `2` - nock itself. nock `9` is the closest thing to a function call, but neither `2` nor `9` gives an aspiring nock compiler any clues about which code we will be calling. This complicates the task of emitting efficient compiled code for `9`, a rather fundamental task for a nock compiler. We have a few options:

+ statically analyze the core-producing part of the formula to see if it can only produce one particular battery. not usually practical, and definitely not trivial.
+ do some sort of indirect call in the compiled code (call through a function pointer, etc). This is easy to implement, but is slow and defeats optimizations like inlining.
+ observe the running call site and see which batteries are actually produced, then later compile specialized branches

(1-3) that check if the core has some known battery, followed by a direct call if the check passes. This is the approach taken in jaque. As ~pittyp-datfyn says, "so i'm hearing tracing jit." That's basically the other approach. This performs well, but is not always easy to implement.

It strikes me that an Urbit-style solution to this problem is to get a hint from the hoon compiler. Hoon knows (a lot of
the time) the battery is going to be. I propose that the core producing part of a nock 9 be wrapped by the hoon compiler in a hint containing a seminoun (see `++musk`), indicating at least what the battery is. This would enable a nock compiler to emit at least a check and specialized branch (containing direct calls and/or loop statements), and additionally would provide the compiler with a proof target to elide the equality check. Runtime systems less sophisticated than graal/truffle or rpython would stand a much better chance of achieving acceptable performance. Similar steps could be taken for nock `2` if the hoon compiler knows what the formula part will be.

Calling for comments, especially from ~sorreg-namtyv.
