---
type: post
date: ~2018.4.11..19.40.59..cf9f
title: A plan for the documentation
author: ~topbus-tabsyd-mirlyt-sabmul--saprev-napsup-napbyn-wanled
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Hey folks,

~lodleb-ritrul (aka Rob) here. Posting from a comet on a different machine.

Most people agree that the current state of the docs isn't great. So ~taglux-nidsep and I have been discussing an outline to make them better.

Since docs are important for the community, we're hoping to build a degree of community consensus. So consider this thread a place to give input. 

Possible outline (each hyphen represents being a child of a higher tier): 

Tutorial Section
- Install guide
- Explanation data structures that underpin system
  - General “what is Urbit?” should go here to contextualize everything. Short and sweet vision.
  - Noun: How the data structure is fundamental to Urbit.
  - Cores
- Hoon tutorial. Learners do something. 
  - Fizzbuzz explained step-by-step, with kid-gloves on
  - Urbytes goes here (can be expanded, with new sections placed where appropriate)
  - Syntax: what is an expression?
  - 15-20 introductory runes and examples using them (new)
  - Introduction to Hoon's type system (no polymorphism)
  - Intro to Hoon standards library, only major parts
  - Simple Math
  - Lists
  - Sets
  - Map
- Arvo tutorial. 
  - Basic Hoon, but with a different title and slight updating
  - The subject, rewritten
  - Network messages, rewritten
  - Etc etc

Explanation Section\
Overview of Urbit. Simple, literal, metaphor-free technical primer. Current technical overview is too brief and unclear. The four-letter words should be explained here. Examples of content:
- Vere 
- Hoon explanation.
- Arvo
  - Ames
  - Behn
  - Cay
  - Dill
  - Eyre
  - Ford
  - Gall
  - Jael
  - Vere
  - Preinstalled apps
    - Dojo
    - Hall
    - Talk


How-to guides section (this section could be collapsed right into the tutorial section or navigated to by “side progression”)
- Examples
- Exercises
- Project ideas

Reference (no implied progression; that is, no Next: X at the bottom of the page)
- Concepts (longer explanations, with rigor emphasized)
  - Each concept should get its own sub-page. So:
  - Concept B
  - Concept C    
- Glossary
  - Cheat sheet
  - Runes
    - Individual rune pages
  - Types
  - Irregular Rune Forms 
- Standard Library
- Error messages (troubleshooting)
- Vere
  - Community
  - Links to community docs
  - Community implementations of Nock
  - Community-made API connectors (those that don't get us in trouble to share)
- "Expression reference" gets deleted wholesale. As far as I can tell, it's completely redundant with respect to the Runes page.
