---
type: post
date: ~2018.5.1..17.23.14..09ca
title: Desired Documentation Outcomes (Docs Discussion Thread #3)
author: ~rovsev-lisryd-dotryg-nacner--mopdux-nomwen-rivteg-daplun
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I wrote about our goals for the documentation in the Docs Discussion Thread #1, but in certain respects that discussion was inadequate.  There wasn't enough consideration of the broader community outcomes we want to bring about.  The relevant question is: what do we want readers to be able to know and do after they work through the documentation?

We could probably have let this slide except that apparent disagreements have come up in non-public discussion about what content to focus on for the Hoon tutorials.  To resolve that debate I'll discuss what I think are the relevant outcomes we should want for Urbit beginners who are interested in supporting the project.  Then I'll bring the hitherto private debate public.  Naturally others may disagree about the desired community outcomes I list below; feel free to take issue with anything you see here.

## Hoon Competence

Of course we want people in the community to learn and get better at Hoon.  But why?  There are several reasons.

### Helping to Build Urbit

One obvious desirable outcome is that readers will learn enough Hoon to help build Urbit.  We want people to make PRs on Arvo vanes!  This is a pretty ambitious goal.  Not only must the reader learn Hoon; he must also figure out what's going on with the various parts of Arvo.  The fact that Urbit uses Hoon as its higher-level programming language drastically under-determines what sort of "OS" Urbit uses.  So, ideally, the docs will help the reader understand some of the nuts and bolts of Arvo as well.  Hand-wavy discussion won't suffice for this.  There should be detailed tutorials that help the reader get his hands dirty, passing moves, making use of the `zuse.hoon` library, and so on.

### Showing Off Urbit

`~sorreg-namtyv` brought up a good point.  Docs are another way to market Urbit.  I've mentioned previously how well-written docs can help Urbit's image, and I think that point still holds.  Good doc writing is good marketing.  But we should aim to show off Urbit in a second-order sense as well.  We want to help readers learn enough Hoon (and the right parts of Hoon) to become effective Urbit evangelists themselves.  If we do well in helping people build impressive webpages, blogs, or other simple projects, that makes Urbit look good.  Even better if we can help them show off the parts of Urbit that are particularly unique and noteworthy.

### Building Up Community Competence and Driving Urbit Adoption

Urbit isn't ready yet to grow much beyond the people who are helping to develop Urbit itself---that is, we aren't yet looking for people to make their own consumer-facing Hoon apps.  However, that doesn't mean we shouldn't start planning for that day.  We should be building a community of competent Hoon coders, even if many of them never submit a PR to any of Urbit's Github repositories.  These people can still play an important role in driving Urbit adoption once Urbit *is* ready to grow.

You might think this isn't worth addressing yet.  After all, isn't it easy to get that sort of attention once Urbit is really ready to grow?  Can't we just put out the word that Urbit is open for business, once Arvo is full-featured, stable, and performant?  The answer is probably "yes," but that's not good enough.  Our tutorials and documentation have to be ready to make good use of that increased community attention when it happens.  This isn't a trivial thing.  If our docs are still sub-par at that point then we'll alienate people.  "But Josh, isn't this what you and Rob are here for?  To make sure our docs *aren't* sub-par?"  Yes, but making them good is going to be a dynamic process; we're going to write stuff, get feedback from outsiders, revise, get more feedback from outsiders, revise, revise again, and so on.  This is going to be a long and deliberate process.  Which means we need to start on early versions of tutorials for humble app devs basically right now.

### Drive Feedback for Engineers

Urbit needs a lot more engineering.  There are still lots of decisions yet to be made about how the final Urbit product is going to look.  If we're to get the developer experience right, we'll need people trying to develop on Urbit so they can give feedback about what's good and bad.  This will help with finding bugs, finding rough parts of the development process, finding the better parts of the same (to retain those without changing them too much), etc.

There are probably many other reader outcomes that I'm not thinking of at the moment which will be important for Urbit's future success.  We have to keep all of these (and more) in mind if we're to make the right decisions about how to write and prioritize the various parts of our documentation.

## Reactive Docs vs `%gall` Apps

`~sorreg-namtyv`has argued that we need more focus on the marketing aspect of our presentation of Hoon.  No argument from me about that.  To that end, he suggests that the Hoon tutorial series focus on making Hoon-backed reactive documents.  I don't want to speak for him here, so I'll say how I understand such a project working.  When you first install Urbit and boot your planet, you end up in a REPL.  We could start by teaching a little bit of very simple Hoon stuff in the REPL, having the reader paste maybe one naked generator into the mounted `/gen` directory, and then move to working on reactive docs from that point on.

I think `~sorreg` is certainly right to suggest adding in reactive docs into the Hoon tutorial progression.  On balance adding it seems to satisfy many of the outcomes listed above.  But he makes another suggestion that I'm not as excited about.  He suggests that the current tutorial emphasis on Hoon %gall `/app`s is misguided, and therefore that we should avoid spending effort working on that part of the Hoon tutorial progression.

Again, I don't want to speak for `~sorreg`, so I'll give the case against teaching %gall apps from my own point of view (though of course it's informed by the argument he gave offline).  %gall is due for some reworking, which means that someone learning %gall apps in their current form will have to adjust as the newer %gall is written.  Meanwhile they will have learned something that doesn't necessarily make them better at working on, say, Arvo vanes.  Anyway, %gall apps are fairly open-ended, and so we won't be doing right by our students if we encourage them to go this direction and perhaps get lost in a dark forest, rather than encourage them to work on something a bit more practical for Urbit's present-day needs.

I'm unconvinced by these arguments.  I think a good tutorial module on writing %gall apps would be a great benefit.  Perhaps `~sorreg` or others will weigh in and give a better argument than the one I've given above; but I think it's clear that teaching Hoon apps definitely furthers the outcomes listed in the first part of this post.

It may be that %gall is getting a rewrite, but wouldn't it be good to have people working on apps as this rewrite is happening, giving feedback that could help inform the decision-making about *how* it gets rewritten?  Furthermore, I can say that my own experience has been that learning %gall apps has helped me understand at a practical, hands-on level how Arvo works, and how its various parts interact.  These %gall apps are definitely Arvo-facing.  And it may be that %gall apps are also open-ended in nature, but I don't see how this is a bad thing.  Tinkering with Urbit is intrinsically fun; open-ended fun is even better.  Open-ended tinkering may not always result in a practical product for Urbit development, but that's not necessarily a bad thing.  We need not expect that people are going to write apps that we want them to PR to one of Urbit's repositories.  But if people are learning important material that will be useful at some future stage, that's an outcome still worth having.

I know I'm running the risk of getting too big for my britches here.  I admit that there's a lot I still have to learn about Hoon and Urbit in general.  My understanding is that %gall apps will play an important role in future Urbit app development, regardless of the engineering changes that will happen between then and now.  If I have exaggerated the role %gall apps will play, then please correct me.  If I'm missing the bigger picture, let me know.

As far as I can tell, we don't need to make a choice to focus on either reactive docs or %gall apps to the exclusion of the other option.  Both kinds of tutorial seem like they would be profitable to have.  (To be fair, the present %gall app tutorial is far from ideal.  It needs a lot of reworking.  But it seems to me it's worth putting that effort in.)

Thoughts?

`~taglux-nidsep`