---
type: post
date: ~2018.4.8..08.30.53..ad90
title: Towards Encampment Period
author: ~hodsel-talleb-migset-pantyr--disted-laclyn-dozner-samzod
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---


# Military Outpost

I believe we as Urbit community are moving away from 'stiched with duckt-tape-and-falling-apart' period into 'robust encampment' period on our way towards MVE (Minimal Viable Exit, also see the seminal ["The Spirit and Practice of Digital Homecoming"](https://fora.urbit.org/posts/~2018.3.22..19.46.35..3499~/) by `~sorreg-namtyv`. Think 'the forgotten military outpost on the eastern ends of Roman Empire', not 'weekend retreat at shower-and-breakfast motel'.

The tools are sparse but usable. Contact with the outside world is necessary to survive, both in terms of flow of capital and products, as well as to mantain the steady influx of talent into the Urbit world. 

# Aqueducts

I have battle field reports by `~palfun-foslup` that our first real development tool, `Plato` is finding its use in development workflow, to quickly prototype Hoon functions and then integrating them into larger code. This comes as a surprise to me, because I thought Plato will require much more time to be used as something more than a toy. 

This highlights the importance of tools, as rudimentary as they may be. A metal showel is infinetely better 
than digging holes with a sharp stick, even though we would rather have AI-powered digging equipment now - natural progression of tools is necessary, even though it is easy to wish that tools from the outside world magically appear in urbit. Bear in mind that by the time we implement them, they will be much better (and different) than anything outside networks are able to provide.

Thus the importance of thinking in the spirit of spartan encampment - not in terms of 'how cool it would be if we had twitter inside Urbit right now'. The victory will come in steps, and before we realize it will be here. 
Some impatient tongues say `urbit is developing too slowly`, while the opposite is true. 

An enormous amount of work is happening in Urbit - but when people are building aqueducts you don't see any result until they reach your city and you suddenly have fresh water.
One day someone engineers a metal shovel, then someone else uses that that to dig deeper wells, until one day we all wake up aboard a spaceship headed to mars.

The Encapment period means that increasingly better tools are getting engineered, the network is expanding and getting more robust. Even though the outside connections are necessary to our very survival, Urbit feeds of them and redirects their power for its own betterment, rather than falling their prey.

`~ponmep-litsem`