## `~palfun-foslup`
(Forgive me if the reply feels a bit hazy, jet lag isn't as kind to me as I had hoped.)

tl;dr: basically this is where talk's headed

* yes
* yes, no, no
* yes, and also yes
* see below

(There's a distinction between "talk the platform" and "talk the chat app". This separation isn't yet live on the network, but will be soon™. Below, we'll be focussing exclusively on the former.)

Talk is supposed to become a general purpose messaging bus. It shouldn't just be useful for IM apps, but any app that wants to send data to users, and/or can benefit from subscription functionality. Think to-do lists, calendars, or indeed version control systems.

To support this, talk will be offering many different message types. We'll be expanding the currently available set to generically cover most use cases. The different kinds of data (from a use case perspective) you could ever need is fairly finite, so most apps will be able to make do with the defaults.

Extensibility will still be a thing. Even right now you can send an `[%ext %some-name some-data]` message over talk. This isn't useful to our current chat app, but maybe you've made an application that looks at messages in a stream and does something special when it sees an `%ext` message with `%some-name`.  
It's not difficult to see how that's also how thing will work with message types that are officially part of the talk protocol.

So yeah, good thinking! You won't be sending code over the network of course, but you're sending triggers for applications to execute parts of their code. Talk (the platform) will play the managing role in the communications that do this stuff, whereas talk (the IM app) is just one of many apps that makes use of this.

Does that make sense?