## `~sorreg-namtyv`
Sorry, some key combination wants to post!

Let me finish this lecture, it's actually short.  `(~(play ut p) q)` is type inference.  It infers the span (type) that's produced by executing the twig (AST, expression) `q` against a subject in span (type) `p`.  

But `++ut` uses manual laziness.  So any time it would infer into an arm, it just puts in a `%hold`.

Of course, many common spans will repeat infinitely if you traverse them in this way.  However, depending on the function you're computing, you can generally ascribe a correct semantic meaning to a conservative algorithm that prunes the computation.  For instance, when in `++moot` we encounter a `$hold`, we check if it's in our working set `gil`.  If so, we treat the span as void.  If not, we compute its expansion asking the question: assuming that everything in `gil` is void, can we construct any noun that matches this span?

These algorithms will stack-crash if presented with an irregularly infinite span.  One, this basically never happens in real life.  Two, if the compiler crashes, the only thing you need or want is a stack trace showing you where in your code it crashed.  It's basically just another kind of error.

So there is really no super-advanced math here, to say the least.  I get the feeling you think this stuff is much more interesting than it is, and so you're stumbling around in a search space that's much too large... you can improve a good deal on pattern recognition without that much labor.