## `~barpub-tarber`
Given that "In Urbit, there is no distinction between a directory and a file", perhaps `/desk/example/` could have its metadata at `/desk/example.yaml`. This is a slightly awkward fit with git(hub), however, since in Unix there is very much such a distinction.

Promoting `desk/example/example.yaml` to `desk/example.yaml` while we continue to use git wouldn't be terrible, really. On the Unix end a symlink would do it. 

But that metadata needn't include/shouldn't include the dependencies. I'm not clear on how symbolic linking works in %clay but given a top-level app directory structure something like this:

> project/
>    src/
>    doc/
>    lib/
>    test/

Where `lib` contains symlinks to the fully-qualified hyperstatic path `~ship/app/app-library/23` to pin a version or `~ship/app/app-library` to stay synced to the latest revision. Presumably caching is still an optimization.

`project.yaml` could contain metadata like: licenses, contributing ships (useful to find keys to prove the validity of signed revisions), whatever values might be useful. Canonical URLs for Git bridging, as the current package.json is doing being another example. 

Having that global hyperstatic referent is nicely avoids issues with circular dependency. Ff you have a particular library or app in cache already, you're relieved of the burden of fetching it a second time, including whatever infinite loop is thereby implied. Circular dependency is harmful only insofar as code might actually call other code in a non-terminating and circular fashion. Which is no worse and no better than any other stack overflow. 

Much of what could go into `package.yaml are things we might aspire to do without, such as git URLs, or integrate into %clay more directly, such as signatures,. In the latter case we could then continue to use the .yaml files as a way to serialize clay into less sophisticated filesystems. 