## `~rophex-hashes`
I've merged the desk ancestry branch to the master branch. I've also added content-hash labels (basically the 2nd approach described above), and a generator for a better cli experience.

Since there is an implicit merge of the %base desk for every package without dependencies, the content hash depends on the contents of %base. And if %base changes (for example an arvo update pushed from the parent) all the hashes in the package dependency tree will need to be updated.

I'm wondering what would be the better approach:

1. Be strict about the %base hash that the package is compatible with (include the required %base hash in the package descriptor and validate before installing the package)

2. Don't merge %base implicitly but let packages decide if they want to include a base arvo in their dependencies (and they can point to whichever version of arvo they want which will be fetched from github, for example).

With the 2nd approach a package can also not include %base at all in which case the resulting desk will only include the package files without arvo. It wouldn't be possible to run apps directly from such a desk but you probably wouldn't want to do that anyway (better merge/sync from the package installation desk to %home or something)

Also, i'm wondering if the current approach of merging from the local %base is a good idea - what if the local %base has been modified locally? I don't think anything prevents that. Is there some immutable initial desk that can be merged from instead?


