## `~ponnys-podfer`
Things are starting to look usable in doccord world.

On the current patch set ([arvo][arvo], [urbit][urbit]), you now have irregular syntax on arms:

    ^:  '''
        String processing library

        When we refer to a "string", we mean a tape unless otherwise is specified.
        '''
    |%
    ::
    ++  contains
      ''':Returns whether the second argument is contained in the first.''':
      |=  {str/tape nedl/tape}
      ^-  ?
      ?~  (find nedl str)  |  &
    ::
    ++  sum
      ''':Sum of the values of the strings characters.

      I have no idea why this is in the library.''':
      |=  str/tape
      ^-  @ud
      =|  sm/@ud
      |-
      ?~  str  sm
      $(sm (add sm i.str), str t.str)
    --

This irregular syntax mimics how python treats its docstrings, except that with the magic of `++iny`, you don't need a separate post-processor to strip leading whitespace.

I've also folded printing help into `?`:

    > /+  str
    > ? str
    String processing library

    When we refer to a "string", we mean a tape unless otherwise is specified.

    Arms:
      ++contains : Returns whether the second argument is contained in the first.
      ++sum      : Sum of the values of the strings characters.

    < 2.xcv
      1.khd
      { our/@p
        <22.kuk 9.aqz 8.eiu 119.osf 210.pga 55.dum 117.hru 33.xnr 2.wxc $149>
      }
    > ? sum:str
    Sum of the values of the strings characters.

    I have no idea why this is in the library.

    < 1.wvq
      { str/""
        < 2.xcv
          1.khd
          { our/@p
            <22.kuk 9.aqz 8.eiu 119.osf 210.pga 55.dum 117.hru 33.xnr 2.wxc $149>
          }
        >
      }
    >

Now, we print the first line of the doccord in the core overview, which should lead to browsable documentation. If you want details on a gate, you can dive down into the longer docs.

All of this is done with `++spans` (no more direct psuedoparsing of the `++twig` tree), and has a complete implementation, including `++mull`.

What remains? I can think of a few remaining issues.

- The irregular syntax works by being hardcoded directly into `++boog:vast`. This is not the only context we want to have the irregular form in; we want to be able to wrap cores, too. But I'm stumped about where to integrate this! Doing the naive thing and putting the parser at the front of the `pose` in `++tall:vast` doesn't work.

- The doccords themselves have newlines in them, and it's up to the code in dojo to split them into lines. Is this an indication that the span type should be `{$docs p/wain q/span}`? Or is it right to do this in dojo?

[arvo]: https://github.com/eglaysher/arvo/tree/doccords-as-span
[urbit]: https://github.com/eglaysher/urbit/tree/doccords-as-span
