## `~ribben-donnyl`
In the second language acquisition community, there’s an idea called “comprehensible input”.  People learn better if they are presented with material that they mostly understand through familiarity, with a small number of new items that can be discerned through context.

Essentially this means that if you’re learning French, you don’t start reading Marcel Proust on your first week, even if that’s your end goal for whatever reason. You start with Dora the Explorer and proceed from there.

The problem with the docs is that everything moves way too quickly.  Even the most simple introductory examples have a dozen or so runes.  Terms and ideas are presented as needed, but without much deliberation.

As an example, the Haskell Book* does a good job of a very slow, deliberate introduction.  Everything is rolled out one concept at a time, gone through thoroughly and then its onto the next concept.

The downside: even if you’re extremely diligent, it takes months to get through it.

The upside: you really end up understanding what’s going on.

Anyway, that’s my overall suggestion.   Go slowly with the tutorials.  Cap each section with a “what I learned”, with terms (“gate”, “nest”, etc.) and the (hopefully small) number of new runes that have come up.  (This is good for both review purposes and to make sure you haven’t introduced too much at once)

This might be frustrating for people who want to do things NOW, but successful docs should present the information in such a way that it’s both understood and retained.

*http://haskellbook.com/