## `~taglux-nidsep`
As for the last transformation... this one is tougher, and I'm not as sure I get it.  My impression is that the labels to the left, `XX:` indicate memory locations, or something analogous.  Everything seems to be in hexadecimal, presumably because each hexidecimal digit maps directly onto a 4 digit binary string.  Each line has space for 8 hexadecimal digits, meaning 32 binary digits.

I'm mildly surprised to see "@" in the code, however, because that isn't a hexadecimal digit.  How would that translate to binary?  Is it just "a" of hex (not used elsewhere in the code), but stylized to make it clear it indicates reference to a memory location?

`00: d 1 0 8  d 1 @8`

This says (I think!?): `dup lit 0 pin dup lit @8`.  So, duplicate the top of the stack, presumably the input `N`, to get two of 'em; replace the top one with `0`; concatenate the `0` to the left-hand side of the next highest thing, resulting in `[0 N]` on top; duplicate the top of the stack, then replace the top with `@8`.  Resulting stack:  `@8` on top, then `[0 N]`, then whatever.

`04: 8 9 2`

I read this as: `pin run 2`.  So, "pin" the `@8` to the left of the `[0 N]`, resulting in `[@8 [0 N]]` on top of the stack; then execute the instructions at memory location 8.

`08: d d 0 7  e 0 6 5`

I read this as: `dup dup at 7 swap at 6 eq`.  Right now the stack has `[@8 [0 N]]` and then whatever else below.  So `dup dup` makes it:

    [@8 [0 N]]
    [@8 [0 N]]
    [@8 [0 N]]
    (whatever)

`at 7`, `swap`, and `at 6` makes that:

    0
    N
    [@8 [0 N]]
    (whatever)

`eq` takes the top two things in the stack, and returns `true` if they're equal, `false` otherwise.  (In practice I imagine this is really `0` or `1`, respectively.)  So the stack is now:

    'true' or 'false'
    [@8 [0 N]]
    (whatever)

Next line:

`0c: 10  1 0  f   21`

I can sort of read this because I'm pretty sure I know what's supposed to happen... but I'm definitely not clear on exactly why this works.  I read this as `if [not then goto 10, else] lit 0 jmp 21`.

First question:  If the 8-digit hex is getting converted to 32-digit binary, how could there be a difference between `10` and `1_0`?  How does the computer know that the first `10` doesn't mean `lit 0`?

Second question:  Why is it correct to read `10` as a conditional-related instruction?  If I hadn't known to expect a conditional there, I wouldn't have thought to suppose that that's what that was.  Maybe it will be more clear to ask: how do conditionals work in this language?

First the `if [not then goto 10, else]`.  If the top of the stack is `false`, erase the `false` and run the instruction at memory location 10.  Otherwise, erase the `true` and continue to... `lit 0`.  Erase the subject at the top of the stack and replace it with `0`.  Then `jmp` to memory location 21.  Next line:

`10: d d 0 7  e 0 6 4`

I read this line as: `dup dup at 7 swap at 6 inc`.  The stack right now has one copy of the subject on top: `[@8 [0 N]]`.  So the `dup dup` makes that:

    [@8 [0 N]]
    [@8 [0 N]]
    [@8 [0 N]]
    (whatever)

The `at 7 swap at 6 inc` makes that:

    1
    N
    [@8 [0 N]]
    (whatever)

Next line:

`14: 5   19   1 1 f`

I read this as: `eq if [not then goto 19, else] lit 1 jmp`.  The `eq` command erases the top two things but returns `true` or `false` depending on whether they were equal.  So the stack is now:

    'true' or 'false'
    [@8 [0 N]]
    (whatever)

If the stack has `false` on top, the `if` erases it and makes the program execute the instructions starting at memory location 19.  If the stack has `true`, it erases the `true` and continues to the next instruction.  `lit 0` replaces the subject on top of the stack with `0` and jumps to... we'll see in the next line:

`18: 21  d 0  2 e 0 6`

...jump to memory location 21!  I read the rest of the line (starting at mem location 19) as: `dup at 2 swap at 6`.  The stack has `[@8 [0 N]]` on top, so `dup` copies this and puts that on top, for a total of two of 'em.  `at 2` replaces the top of the stack with `@8`; and `swap` switches the top two things so that now the subject is on top of the `@8`.  `at 6` replaces the subject with `0`.  The stack is now:

    0
    @8
    (whatever)

I'm a bit worried about this result.  Shouldn't we have `[@8 [0 N]]` somewhere in there?  I'm worried that, unless my accounting is off, a duplication command is missing somewhere.

Next line:

`1c: 4 4 e 0  7 c c 9`

I read this as: `inc inc swap at 7 con con run`.  For `inc inc` we add 2 to the value at the top of the stack.  Then `swap` to get:

    @8
    2
    (whatever)

This was what I was worried about... I know we somehow want to stack N on top, but we're missing the subject!  Is it possible that you mistakenly left out a "d" somewhere?  Or have I messed something up?  Anyway, I suspect the stack is now supposed to be:

    N
    0
    @8
    (whatever)

The first `con` puts the top two things into a single tuple.  So now the stack should be:

    [0 N]
    @8
    (whatever)

The second `con` makes another tuple out of the top two things:

    [@8 [0 N]]
    (whatever)

Then we're supposed to `run`... last line:

`20: 2  (0 1)`

...2.  Run the instructions at the location indicated by 2.

I'm guessing `(0 1)` is for program termination, though I'm not sure exactly how to read it.

Okay, how'd I do?

[I'm probably not at this level yet...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6vMO3XmNXe4)