## `~taglux-nidsep`
Some things about the essay seem inaccurate to me, but my background isn't all that extensive.  Feedback on the following would be appreciated.  My understanding is that a hash function is pretty much something like the following:

`"String to be input" ==>  [Hash function] ==>  "Resulting hash"`

If I'm misunderstanding it's likely because I'm oversimplifying how the hash function works.  From the essay:

"While the same data will always result in the same hash, it is impossible to reconstitute your original data from hash it produces."

AFAICT, this isn't correct.  The hashing function should return a value that is *infeasible* to trace back to the original data, but not impossible.  A brute-force check of all possible inputs for a crypto-hash would require enormous amounts of computing power, but in principle it could be used to reconstitute the original data, once a match of the product is found.  (Of course, there might be more to it than just this.  I'll say more about this shortly.)

"It may seem impossible that a near infinite amount of data can be translated consistently into a unique string of only 64 characters, but this miraculously [is] how cryptographic functions work. Entire books full of text can be translated into a single string of 64 numbers and letters using this incredible technology. And every time you put the same data in, you will get not only the same identical hash, but one that is unique and different from any other hash."

This can't be right.  (Can it?)  If there is a unique hash for every input, then there is a 1-to-1 correspondence between input and output.  (Proof of 1-to-1 correspondence:  (1) Every input to the hash function has an output.  (2) Outputs are unique, so there can't be more than one input for the resulting output.  QED, sort of.  I ignored the possibility that there are hash outputs for which there are no inputs, but I think it's fair to set this aside.  Assume every possible hash output has at least one corresponding input.  Dropping this assumption won't substantively change the following argument, in any case.)

Assume there is a given set of symbols (letters and numbers, and whatever else) which make up the strings for both input and output.  Let's say there are K number of symbols in that set.  There are 64 chars in the product hash, so that means there are K^64 possible hash values.  This number is enormous, of course.

But notice that the input string also has precisely that many possible inputs when we consider lengths of 64 characters.  And because there's a 1-to-1 correspondence between inputs and outputs (uniqueness of resulting hash!) it follows that there are no more output hash strings for the inputs which are longer than 64 chars.  Something has gone wrong, because we *can* produce hashes of inputs longer than 64 chars.

From poking around on Wikipedia, it looks like hash functions don't need to produce a unique output.  It just needs to be infeasible to find two inputs that generate the same output for a given has function.  It looks to me that hash functions are somewhat like checksums, in this respect.

What that means is that a brute force method of trying to reconstruct original data from a hash might not necessarily guarantee that one will end up with the original input of the hash.  It might be a different string that happens to have the same output.  But if finding this isn't enough (and I suspect that in many cases it is enough), there might be other methods for determining whether the brute force result is the original input.

Am I confused?