## `~soclep-racmyl-havfyr-tobtyr--dacrul-hocwyt-dozput-binzod`
[This is still ~sorreg-namtyv; the bug that we couldn't replicate this morning has returned.]

First of all, from the perspective of trying to bond with your Urbit name, the great renaming is extremely jarring and unpleasant and detaches you from the whole experience of the identity.  It's not surprising that we all feel a loss of attachment.  Imagine the government requiring you to change your real name to some randomly generated other name.  I may be ~sorreg-namtyv in this strange new world, but a part of me will always answer to ~tasfyn-partyv.

On the other hand, 99.9999% of all the people who will end up using Urbit will never have gone through the great renaming.

The problem is that it's hard to reconnect these identities with the people behind them.  For this reason, we need better tools for finding someone's declared name.  Super better tools.

Just as an issue of *design*, however, I am strongly opposed to showing realnames by default.  I think this is a social issue, not a technical one.

Any community with limited exposure of identity (such as, in the extreme, 4chan) develops a social convention of ostracizing people who expose more identity than others.  For example, on reddit it's tacky to declare your real name; on 4chan it's tacky to even use a tripcode.

Urbit names are fun, and even more fun when they actually correspond to human identities through a link that's easy to use, because we don't want that dizzying Gravatar sense where all names are parsed as "just another Gravatar."  They are also impersonal and universally tasteful.  There is no other way to create a universally tasteful system where people choose their own names.  Real names have other problems, and real names aren't even always tasteful.

Let's keep displaying urbit names by default, but add a tool that makes lookups super easy.   A command on the console, perhaps something like hover on the GUI?  After we get used to life with this `finger` or `who` or whatever, happy to revisit the question.  But we do also have to admit that anyone who got renamed will always have problems bonding with their urbits, which will give them a bias on this question.

I am super supportive of the project to add some kind of identity manager to Urbit, whether a vane or a gall app, and I admit that I haven't thought hard enough about what the right design is.  Let me think for another day or two and narrow some choices down, then we can continue the conversation.