## `~master-morzod`
Some thoughts on user-experience and naming things, with no particular
organizing principle:

### merge vs rebase

Let's say a merge is a multi-parent commit, while a rebase "re-parents" a set
of commits -- a rebase changes hashes, while a merge does not. (Note that from
this vantage point, a fast-forward merge is both and neither.)

With git, rebasing published commits is an anti-pattern, but rebasing local
commits is a common (and maybe essential) workflow. And git rebase is actually
an umbrella term referring to any one of:

- re-ordering commits
- removing commits
- combining multiple commits into a single commit (squash)
- arbitrarily re-parenting commits (cherry-pick)
- editing commit messages

These operations are meaningful in git because a branch is just a mutable
pointer to a commit. It's unclear to me what (if any) analogue they might have
in `%clay`. If desks are immutable and commits maintain referential
transparency, the only available operation is "append one or more commits", and
rebase vs merge is either a minor aesthetic question, or a judgement call with
regards to which can be implemented more precisely. Or both. I have little to
offer on either question.

But I find that to be an unsatisfying conclusion. As a *responsible* developer,
I consider it my duty to craft a *meaningful historical narrative* through my
commits. The immutable record of *how* I arrived at a set of changes is not
necessarily the most effective way to communicate *why* I've made those
changes. Removing those tools from my toolbox feels like some type of
deontological commitment to immutability, forcing me back towards SVN.

I'm accustomed to treating *published* commits as sacrosanct, but I wonder if
there's room for some type of private desk, wherein I can arbitrarily mutate my
commits to my ultimate satisfaction before immutably publishing them, and only
thereafter maintaining referential transparency.

I may be overstating my case here; is it accurate to say that commit numbers
are required to be contiguous? If not, *rebase* in the broad sense could be
implemented on public desks while maintaining referential transparency; the
commits would simply be sparse.

### paths

- Is it accurate to say that `++dime` is to `++atom` as `++vase` is to `++noun`?
- Does it makes sense to swap `++knot` and `++dime` in `++wire` as well?
- Can we call a dime-based path a [`++sack`](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=dime+bag&defid=1860427)?

Referring to `%clay` nodes by their path *excluding* the mark certainly sounds
convenient, and I'm never one to argue with convenience. But it seems to
require the last segment of the path to be unique, and that would likely pose
difficulties for Unix syncing.

Also, `Make.mak` might be necessary, horrifying as it is. But what about my
`.gitignore` and `.jshintrc` files?

### marks

I think of marks as namespaces, or maybe a namespace of namespaces. A namespace
that contains its own parsing/validation/diff/transformation implementations is
a pretty incredible concept -- it gets to the heart of Urbit's expressive
development power.

The purpose of a namespace is to remove (or at least limit) ambiguity. But
namespace systems themselves are prone to be complicated, inconsistent, or
ambiguous. The range of file extensions is a terribly ambiguous namespace,
while the [w3c is itself a namespace](https://encrypted.google.com/search?hl=en&q=inurl%3Awww.w3.org%2Fns)
of incredibly complicated and inconsistent namespaces. This seems to demand
further examination, since marks are, in a sense, a marriage of the two spaces.

That's all a bit grandiose, and maybe a little unfair -- marks are presented
as executable MIME types, not semantic lexicons. MIME types seem to work
well-enough in practice without including revision numbers, simply by placing
the burden on implementers. It's probably reasonable for marks to do the same.

It's pretty common (or at least, commonly recommended) to extend MIME types for
specializations. Oddly enough, this is conventionally handled with a prefix on
the second facet: see
[`application/docbook+xml`](https://docs.oasis-open.org/docbook/specs/docbook-5.0-spec-os.html#media-type-registration)
or
[`application/hal+json`](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kelly-json-hal-08).
While this could be made to work with either generic or inheritable marks,
it's worth noting as a distinct use-case from the proposed container marks.

If marks are seen as namespaces, mark-symbols (logos?) should be seen as bound
*namespace prefixes*. Is this a clarifying transformation? It changes the
matter of mark/dome resolution to one of default namespace bindings, and
raises the question: in what circumstances should this binding be mutable?

Resolving all marks to the target dome seems simplifying, but what if I want to
retrieve typed data from a source I only partially trust? I'd certainly rather
not evaluate their marks ... A configurable, per-desk mark-beak is an
improvement, but still presumes (or enforces) a level of homogenization for
each desk.

A fully-qualified mark name is, of course, the beak plus the logo (?), but I
wonder if that's sufficient in a world that Urbit has not yet conquered.
`/~master-morzod/home/1/mar/md` vs `/~sorreg-namtev/home/10/mar/md` tells us
little to nothing from a semantic standpoint. We have to retrieve and evaluate
(or at least diff) those marks to learn anything at all, let alone anything of
substance. If everyone were on urbit, we might know that `~mardev` represents a
trusted organiztion, and use `/~mardev/mark/1/mar/md` for all our markdown
needs. That world is optimistically a long way off. In the meantime, is there a
place for semantic namespacing?

More practically, are atomic, symbolic references sufficient to mark arbitrary
nouns in a truly general-purpose filesystem? The current `hep`-separated
hierarchy already has ambiguity (see `/mar/tree/include` vs
`/mar/tree-include`), and adding mark containers to these atomic symbols would
seem to require additional data, or a DSL. The opposite extreme of storing
fully-qualified mark-paths for each node seems, well, extreme. And
customizable bindings may well be the Vietnam of namespacing. I bring no
solutions.

### queries and indices

I absolutely love this! `%clay` is already a filesystem, a typed object-store,
and a DVCS -- why not a database too?

You should obviously be able to query by any part of a beak, path, and mark.
But that's just `find` -- not much of a database. Standardized formats should
allow structural queries: XML/JSON element/property queries, for instance, but
that still leaves much unexplored. And supporting only mark-specific structural
queries seems uninspired. Alternatively, marks could support a standard key-
value structure for extracting indexed fields (that would seem necessary for
range indices anyway). And then there's full-text, which opens Pandora's
linguistic box...

Query languages seem to be spread across axes of "programmingness" and
"declarativity"; Urbit's ingrained reluctance to send code over the wire seems
to push us down the first and up the second, towards Mongo-esque "query by
example", or the data "DSL"s of ElasticSearch and MarkLogic.

This probably deserves a separate post.

### unix

I can't speak for the long-term tractability of two-way sync, but, boy, is it
brain-dead easy to use. I haven't used the FUSE interface; my local python
env is on the fritz, and I haven't had a pressing need to figure out why. That
may just speak to my incompetence, or perhaps some current difficulty-of-use. I
don't think I've done anything too weird -- just homebrew ...

The proposed one-way Unix-to-urbit mount strikes me as an unusual interface.
(While git works in a somewhat similar way, that's a) not git's interface, and
b) *git is renowned for its terrible interface!*). Do you picture eventually
having a commandline tool (`/usr/bin/clay`) to provide a more-standard DVCS
workflow on top of this?

### `HEAD`

And, finally, why not a `HEAD`? Instead of `(scot %da now)` in almost every
path, that could be a single branch in `%clay` itself. Is it to avoid potential
conflict with a `%head` label? Could there just be a magic label?
