## `~tocsum-hodmeg-datteg-divlus--dirluc-falfed-dozter-marzod`
I've only read the Urbit intros, an article or two and poked around the Forums, so apologies if this is off-target. If you want to be really useful really quickly, in real-world problems as well as online, here's something you might emulate or assimilate: 

The most absurdly useful program I know is an interactive language called Frink. It is a command-line desk calculator (with GUI terminal-like and programming modes) that can run on anything with a JVM. It can also be embedded in webpages using Frink ServerPages. It has some of the best documentation anywhere, all on one page : frinklang.org . It is free but closed-source, its author, Alan Eliasen has actively maintained it for over 15 years, and it's been extremely mature nearly the whole time. It has lots of great features: you can program functionally, do self-evaluation, read http and ftp addresses as if on the local filesystem, perl-like regexp, Unicode, nice built-in data structures and math functions (including number theory, complex numbers, and interval arithmetic), and other stuff programmers will like. (The variable constraint feature is particularly powerful. Symbolic math is rudimentary but usable.)

The really useful things about it for users: arbitrary precision rational numbers,  comprehensive physical data type system and knowledge of thousands of types of physical units of dozens of incommensurable types which can be multiplied and divided  in any manner, e.g. "c c grain -> gal gasoline", ["c" has units of velocity, "grain" is mass, "gal" is short for "gallon", "gasoline" has units of energy/volume, multiplication is by juxtaposition, all these units are built in]. It can also handle rational exponents of units. Physics and calculations with physical quantities in the real world is a LOT easier with Frink. This part should be relatively easy to emulate with Urbit since the fascinating and heavily-commented Frink units data file is open.

Frink can also handle chemical molar and thermodynamic calculations, information quantity calculations, extremely precise date/time and time-zone calculations; money, live exchange rates, historical GDP deflators for USD and GBP; translate human languages (via web service), (and more!) See frinklang.org for the full feature list and documentation, you can try it out on the web interface linked at the top there.

Here's a couple of little projects I've used it for:
http://mindsbasis.blogspot.com/2014/07/a-curious-way-to-represent-numbers.html
(Using an n-D tree with balanced-ternary (in [-1,0,1]) leaves to exactly represent (super-)irrational and nearly any other numbers.)

http://mindsbasis.blogspot.com/2016/03/physical-units-factor-tables-puft-i.html
(A single-page map of the 50 most important Frink unit classes arranged by their underlying factors. Use the PDF link at the bottom of the picture for a readable size. A larger-print version is the next-later post on that blog.)

-E.H.