## `~littel-ponnys`
## Further work on testing

(Thank you `~digser` and `~pittyp` for advice on slapping this into shape!)

There are really three different things we want in a test suite:

```
|_  tester-type:test-lib
++  example-dec
  %-  examples  :~
    ['(dec 7)' '6']
    ['(dec 0)' '~[[%leaf p="decrement-underflow"]]']
  ==
::
++  check-decrement
  %+  check
    (generate-range 0 100)
    |=(a/@ =(a (dec (add 1 a))))
::
++  test-decrement
  (expect-eq (dec 5) 4 "decrement failure")
--
```

First, we want a system of examples, which are small code snippets that provide an example of how to use an API. Hoon already has lots of examples which could be turned into example cases, but currently these are placed separately in the `docs` repository, which ensures that the examples are always out of date with the current `hoon.hoon`.

By putting these in the testing framework, documentation can refer to these automatically, and changes to the public API will surface problems in the examples when you run the tests. Here's an unlikely change just to show off failure:

```
test-core/example-dec FAILED
  failure in '(dec 7)':
    expected: '6'
    actual:   '5'
```

Other than surfacing these examples outside of unit tests, this part is done.

Second, we want a system of automated test case generation. People are really bad at being imaginative enough to come up with [counterexamples instead of positive examples][246game]. So lets offload that to a computer. Let's have a function which takes entropy and generates examples. Let's have a testing function which takes those examples and returns `%.y` if certain properties are true. (People might have recognized this as Haskell's [quickcheck][]. It is and it's pretty awesome.)

If we were to break the condition code in `++check-decrement` above:

```
test-core/check-decrement FAILED
  falsified after 1 case by '96'
```

This part works well enough, but is rather rough. My current prototyping takes
an explicit example generation function; it would be nice if I could instead
write `$-({s/span eny/@uvJ} vase)` to automatically make a random instance of any
span by default. Likewise, what I've put together has basically none of the
features of quickcheck other than the basics.

Finally, we want a system for traditional unit testing, using `++expect-eq` and similar arms in the tradition of [JUnit][] and [GTest][]. I haven't done anything here since the last update since it's pretty straightforward conceptually.

[quickcheck]: http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~rjmh/QuickCheck/manual.html
[246game]: http://lesswrong.com/lw/iw/positive_bias_look_into_the_dark/
[JUnit]: http://junit.org/junit4/
[gtest]: https://github.com/google/googletest
