## `~tonret-sigsur`
`~digser`
An eventual `:talk` namespace would be cool. But -- take into account my lack of software design expertise -- it seems like the objective is to generalize namespace creation for any kind of `%gall` app, as that's all `:talk` is after all. Which is basically just being able to fetch immutable versions of `%gall` app state (does `%gall` already do this? I need to read into the vane docs more) at some path / with some kind of typed command to the other ship(s) over `%ames`. 

`~libbyl` (Charlie?)
`solar` definitely sounds cool. Part of me though really strongly believes that for in-house apps we should stick with names like `:talk` that are super short/simple and describe exactly that the thing is/does. If things were my way, `:dojo` would just be `:shell` (or `:shel`/`:chel`). The thing that's tough for me in this case is that the essence of Urbitwitter is the essence of `:talk`: you want to post stuff, and you want to see other people's stuff. But I think where the concepts differ is in tweets not necessarily having to be synchronous. Many Twitter profiles just simply tell a story. Some are in between, telling stories as they relate to current events. And then of course some people engage in straight up dialogue. For all this, I kind of liked the `:verse` as well. I've heard people refer to Twitter as the Twitterverse, and Urbit as the Urbiverse, so there's a slight double entendré with verse as in speech/writing.

The code's not worth looking at at this stage. It's all really really simple. A version1 tutorial without a full-working app should be done in the next few days though for you and all to check out for the basics leading up to something like this. It actually doesn't involve any Hoon, which is cool for the JS hacker who just wants to make a cool new UI for a different spin on `:talk`.