---
type: post
date: ~2018.2.17..01.59.24..2b36
title: ~2018.2.16 Update
author: ~tonlur-sarret
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Here’s what we’ve all been up to this week:

**Curtis** `~sorreg-namtyv` this week, on behalf of `urbit.org,` [awarded Winter 2018 star grants](https://fora.urbit.org/posts/~2018.2.13..20.22.22..bddb~) to Urbit’s top recent contributors. The winners this term were: 

- **Gold**, _64 stars_: Joe Bryan `~master-morzod`
- **Silver**, _32 stars_: Joshua Reagan `~taglux-nidsep`
- **Silver**, _32 stars_: Mikolaj `~ponmep-litsem`
- **Bronze**, _16 stars_: Assaf Berg `~rophex-hashes`
- **Bronze**, _16 stars_: Matt Levan `~mastyr-bottec`
- **Bronze**, _16 stars_: Anthony Arroyo `~poldec-tonteg`

Thank you all again for helping bring Urbit to life!

**Galen** `~ravmel-ropdyl`, **Jimmy** `~haptyl-wanwes`, and **Chris** `~sigtus-hossyn` have been progressing further on the new Urbit frontend.

**Anton** `~pittyp-datfyn` has been working hard on making Urbit-flavored markdown, and subsequently, Fora, a lot less slow than it currently is.

**Mark** `~palfun-foslup` submitted an [`urbit/arvo` pull request](https://github.com/urbit/arvo/pull/610) that implements permissions for Urbit’s Clay filesystem, which Ted merged this week. Among other things, this will play a pivotal role in the new _Collections_ app actively being worked on, so that an Urbit user can store private notes, create invite-only fora and blogs, and collect a private archive of typed documents, all while maintaining referential transparency in the global immutable namespace.

**Ted** `~rovnys-ricfer` and **Keaton** `~tonlur-sarret` have been working on a design for the data structures and control flow for the next version of Ford, Urbit’s build system. We’ll post to Fora once we’ve revised it some more.

**Joshua** `~taglux-nidsep` rejoined [Mars Talk this week](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=--hvpMqIeSA) as host with Ted and Keaton for Episode 21. We decided to take a break from deep technical talk to chat about the proposed _Nock 4K_ spec (a cosmic event in the Urbit universe), Josh’s dissertation, Vere parallelism, and Urbit as a personal command center to call out to Earth blockchains.

Have a great weekend, everyone!
