## `~barpub-tarber`
This is a solid idea and fits well with the discussion around [packages and their manifests](https://urbit.org/fora/posts/~2017.9.7..23.20.06..dc47~/).

It also fits with the general Urbit aesthetic of bringing computation out of the 70s into the 90s...

I'm interested in how this can fit with the global hyperstatic namespace, this being one of the most attractive aspects of the Moron Labs era Ur-vision. 

It would be great if we can develop a unified syntax that allows reaching into a file, retrieving metadata, and preserves the syntax for latest revision, anonymous/numbered version, and named release/version. 

The last part is easy enough, since given the canonical `/~your-urbit/home/4/path/to/file` the case is upstream of any file references. Getting pieces of a file can just continue that premise, say we have a mark `marcus` which has three components `foo` `bar` and `baz`, the molds of which are out-of-scope for this discussion. `/~your-urbit/home/4/path/to/file/marcus/foo` should give you just the `foo` portion of the file `file.marcus`. 

Metadata could just borrow a page from URL syntax, so `/~your-urbit/home/4/path/to/file/?lastname` to retrieve the value of the `lastname` key. Shouldn't need the mark for this, since we're envisioning metadata as independent of the mark of the file. Could expand this to `/~your-urbit/home/4/path/to/file?lastname,firstname` or `?(lastname,firstname)` for a query of multiple keys returning a tuple. 

This would go a long way towards the `no distinction between directory and file` by designing a directory mark that's a collection of (marked) files, so `/~your-urbit/home/4/path/to/./?version` could give the semantic version string (or Kelvin, whatever) of the directory `/path/to/`. This is treating `.` as the mark for directories, which is conceptually familiar but may not suit Urbit nomenclature. 

The fun/hard part is typed values for the metadata. Keys should probably be restricted to `@tas` in this particular instance, that's the easy part; the type of a value is either globally determined by the key, which is a serious coordination problem, locally-defined, which is a headache, or `*` where the user is expected to cast-to-type, which is chaos. 

My inclination is to just bite the bullet on global coordination, since that's what we're already doing with marks. 

The other fun part is recursive querying, in case I want all files of mark `marcus` where `age` is between 21 and 65. As I inevitably will. I'm just going to leave this as a stub, rather than try and reinvent SQL on the fly; point being, if well-designed, the queries themselves should partake of the global hyperstatic nature of %clay. 