---
type: post
date: ~2017.12.20..22.43.33..59bc
title: Federation in the future, for hall and others
author: ~palfun-foslup
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I originally wrote this up as an internal email, but this is probably better sent to fora. You know, get even more bright minds to think about this. Apologies if this is a bit ramble-y.

Context: hall / new talk / talk-server can spread load over across multiple ships by "federating" a channel. This works by having stars listen to their galaxies (and galaxies listen to ~zod) for any channels, and then creating copies of those locally. Channels and their configs flow down, messages and presence flow both up and down the hierarchy. This isn't perfect, and as ~pittyp said, "Galaxies are meant to only do name resolution / source of truth, not be beefy routing servers". We don't want ~zod to die on us before the next breach is ready.

I've been thinking about federation a little bit. Is burdening galaxies with chat channel federation going to cause performance issues? Should it? The current model may be sub-optimal regardless.

Federation through hierarchy, like we're currently doing, optimizes for connections per ship and simplicity in how those are made. Ships talk to their parent and children, relations that already inherently exist in Urbit. This is good. Max 509 connections for galaxies, max 65.537 for stars. Of course that's not a load current Urbit can handle. But even in the future, 65k is a lot of subscribers to keep up to date. Problem #1: current solution doesn't scale.

Of course, many more applications will want to use The Power of Decentralization to do away with the need for a super beefy central server. Hall isn't alone in this, and yet its current model is very much a part of its specific architecture. Re-implementing it into another application is fine, but good luck getting stars to run your dinky little tech demo. Problem #2: current solution isn't generically usable.

Resilience against connection loss is also kinda meh. Because your urbit doesn't know where urbit-meta is being hosted, is can't automatically fall back to a different instance if the one you're connected to becomes unresponsive. In the glorious future, we'll all have our urbits running on indestructible cloud servers with live mirrors all over the globe, but in the current era of "anything could go wrong at any time", building in some way to transparently deal with unfortunate events doesn't sound that bad.

Getting to one specific solution here is tricky, because the kind of federation you employ depends on what resources you have access to and what you want to optimize for. Is your app going to be running on many stars, maybe galaxies even? Do you require fast message propagation, or may your messages take a minute to arrive?

Gossip networking might be useful to look at here. With the facilities Urbit provides, surely we can improve upon the "forward to random peers" part. I imagine a general-purpose for-apps peer discovery service running on the galaxies and/or stars, them being in charge of keeping track of the available nodes per application and telling these nodes who they should listen to. This might even provide different hooks for different network shapes, so devs can pick-and-choose a model that best suits their application.  
Reading that back, it sounds possibly over-engineered and perhaps a little bit silly.

Still, federation probably shouldn't stay bound to Urbit's hierarchical model as tightly as it currently is. I can't imagine stars will ever want to forward messages to/from all of their 65k planets. And in the spirit of producing general-purpose software, the solution to that problem should be available to/usable by the masses.

Thoughts, ideas, everything's welcome!