---
type: post
date: ~2016.12.25..06.35.44..a1ec
title: New community Hoon docs
author: ~master-morzod
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Greetings, fellow orbiters of Urbit! I come bearing Christmas gifts.

For a while now, I've been working on some Urbit docs and tutorials. They are
in-progress, and therefore rough and in a state of flux, but, just the same, I
think they're ready to be useful.

Rather than teaching the construction of a specific app/script/feature, I want
to have general references to the relevant capabilities. I initially started
with apps, but that was too hard, so I switched to generators. Then, somewhere
along the way, I decided I needed to write my own introduction to Hoon (cue the
sad trombone).

I've tried to focus on areas that are sparsely documented, and those that were
difficult for me to learn (with some overlap, as one might expect). They're on
a comet now (a LightSail VM, incidently), but once they're polished up I'll
move them to a star.

[http://micnus-tarwyl-haltem-linhut--dilhul-talbes-wolnyx-lasbud.urbit.org/docs](http://micnus-tarwyl-haltem-linhut--dilhul-talbes-wolnyx-lasbud.urbit.org/docs)

So far, they cover twigs, molds, and 3-of-4 generator types. I've got sections
in progress on atoms, cores, data structures, and the 4th generator (`%get`).
Then I'll circle back to apps.

I'd appreciate any comments, especially on structure, clarity and ease. There's
fundamental tension between instruction and reference documentation, and I'm
trying to split the difference ...

On a personal note, I've been tinkering with Urbit since the spring, and have
found the experience to be very rewarding -- I'm particularly grateful to
everyone whose answered questions on `urbit-meta`! Consider this my (first)
attempt to pass it on -- I hope you find them useful!

Merry Christmas!

`~master-morzod`