---
type: post
date: ~2017.9.22..03.14.46..c207
title: Urbit is not joining the blockchain war
author: ~sorreg-namtyv
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

One critic [writes](https://zod.that.world/classic/6-migrate-solri/):

> I have no particular hard feelings towards any particular blockchain. After all, each one has its unique features -- wide adoption from Bitcoin, smart contracts from Ethereum, sounding philosophy from Ethereum Classic, trusted anonymous transactions from Monero. However, I don't think Urbit's joining the on-going blockchain war is a good idea -- it retakes all the fun away, which is the only reason that I'm running Urbit for this blog. Besides, Urbit's PKI system acts similar to blockchain's genesis block. You have never seen a standalone blockchain (except side chains) writing its genesis block into another blockchain.

One: while Urbit would arguably make a great blockchain, Urbit is not a blockchain.  If Urbit was a blockchain, it would seem lame to want to preserve its genesis block on another blockchain.  Sure.  But... *even this* is not *utterly* ridiculous -- a young blockchain with weak hashpower might well want to protect itself by backing up to another chain.  It's actually quite difficult to start a new blockchain today, because more powerful parties can attack you.

Two: in blockchain terms, this is a strict upgrade, even if you think Ethereum is the worst blockchain in the world.  Why?

Because this is not an upgrade from nothing, to Ethereum.  It is an upgrade from Github / Tlon's internal records for galaxies, and Tlon's internal records for stars, to Ethereum.  In other words, it is an upgrade from lame, backward, and centralized, to Ethereum.

We chose Ethereum for a simple reason.  One: it can compute the very simple rules of the Urbit land registry.  Two: it is the most widely adopted public computational blockchain.

In Urbit when we try to be smart, we try to be very smart.  When we try to be dumb, we try to be very dumb.  I agree that these are very dumb reasons for choosing Ethereum.

If there are any errors in this reasoning, we would love to hear them!

> It will also mean that when the integration is finished, you will need to download the whole Ethereum blockchain (more than 100GB) if you want to validate the PKI yourself.

Only the galaxies, if even the galaxies, should have to maintain Ethereum nodes.  Trusting your parent to mirror, and not censor, a contract on a public blockchain is well within the bounds of Urbit parental trust.

On the other hand, I think you do have a valid criticism of the design as presented.  

I think that rather than just mirroring the state of the Ethereum contract, a galaxy monitoring the blockchain should also mirror the log of raw Urbit transactions (with signatures), and mirror those into Urbit.

This way, while the Ethereum blockchain remains the single source of truth, any star or planet that wants to validate the PKI can also do so, without downloading the whole blockchain.  I'm not sure how hard this is to implement with geth, but it shouldn't be that hard.  It may not be the highest priority, but it should certainly happen.  Because, if there's just no way to cheat, that's just better.

> As a result, I decide to fork Urbit and create Solri.

We love Lojban too!  However, without wanting to start any PKI wars or being mean people... 

We have a new rule, which is that you can't promote Urbit forks on Urbit.  This may not be obvious, but it's just antisocial, because you're making anyone who has genuine Urbit(tm) real estate feel a little squatted-on.
