---
type: post
date: ~2017.12.22..12.58.57..5b08
title: Plato as an IDE-lite protocol: need ideas.
author: ~tonweb-pilseb
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

While implementing Plato, it suddenly occured to me that essentially 
there should exist a kind of 'IDE-lite protocol' for working within Urbit. 

The way it works now, your Urbit+ your Editor is the IDE. To run code you save it into clay, 
which triggers rebuild, which shows you any errors. This is wasteful; There should not ever be any need 
to save a Hoon source code just to see if it will build. 

The parts of Plato which will be implemented for Web Front end could in principle be reusable. 
What Plato.hoon will be doing:

- Receive Hoon source code and compile it (in-memory). If there are errors, returns said errors so that editor can use that information to highlight them and what not. If there are no errors, save the code to clay (optional).

This is easy to implement (hopefully), and will be reusable in any kind of editor. I will definitely make an Atom plugin for this. 

The second idea is about Plato Scrolls (or just snippets ;-)). Essentially, a lot of time there is some short snippet of code which you would like to effortlessly:

- Run
- Share
- Store

without polluting your home deck as the number of them grows (I remember my old ship being essentially a dumpstore from all those hoon experiments). Essentially, snippets would live inside designated directory. 
Plato would manage the snippets. If you want to run a snippet, plato just pulls it from clay, detects its type (snippet metadata) and runs it.

The last step needs help. Is it possible to make gall load a compiled hoon? I guess so, but I have no idea how to do it. The idea is that it will be possible to run apps without actually saving anything into /app directory, just loading the app from snippets. 

Then, as your apps grows, you just split it into separate /app, /gen, /sur what not and forget about this part of Plato (while still using its live code checking capabilities). 

Essentially, there are two separate ideas here:

1. Live code checking using Plato.hoon as an API for any other editor to hook into.
2. Code snippets, meant to help with initial stages of any project. Plato is not meant to manage your files. Urbit & your editor already does that. It will just introduce a kind of 'snippet dump' which can then be easily shared, synced, merged etc.

I will appreciate any input/ideas.

~ponmep-litsem