---
type: post
date: ~2016.7.27..21.03.03..f2da
title: How @p works (or will work)
author: ~raplys-lornex
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

This is one of the more common sorts of question on talk. I wrote an explanation of it on reddit, and I'm copying it here. Note that this is *not* a description of how it works now, but a description of how it will work. The deadline for the changeover is August 12.

Urbit phonetic names are base-65536 numbers. We have two sets of 256 syllables each, a "left" set and a "right" set, which act as numerals with values 0-255. All the syllables are consonant-vowel-consonant combinations. The vowels are restricted to a, i, o for the "left" syllables and e, u, y for the "right" syllables (with the exception of "`zod`", zero, which irregularly has an o as the vowel).

From 0-255, or `~zod` to `~fes`, a lone right syllable is used, but otherwise only a word made from one left and one right syllable is valid. Words are separated by a single hyphen (-), and grouped together into groups of four words, which are themselves separated by a double hyphen (--). An example of a valid number, to give you an idea, is `~novful-dilsut--widdeg-mitdyr-dorsud-miplex`. Leading zeroes are an error - this means no leading '`dozzod`'s, or, if your number is only one word long, no leading '`doz`'. (Yes, `~doznec` is a syntax error in the correct system.)

So it's just a normal number system, but there is one catch: the scrambler. Before getting into that, I will explain the ticketing hierarchy as if it didn't exist.

Identities `0x0` through `0xff`, `~zod` to `~fes`, are galaxies. They are the top of the hierarchy, and their public keys are hardcoded into the kernel by us.

`0x100` through `0xffff`, `~marzod` through `~fipfes`, are stars. Stars are issued by a parent galaxy, which signs their key. This parent galaxy is indicated by the least-significant byte. For example, `~zod` (`0x0`) can issue `~marzod` (`0x100`) through `~fipzod` (`0xff00`).

An ordinary Urbit network user has a planet, `0x1.0000` through `0xffff.ffff`. In a similar way, their issuing star is given by the least-significant two bytes. So `~marzod` (`0x100`) can issue `~doznec-marzod` (`0x1.0100`) through `~fipfes-marzod` (`0xffff.0100`). The issuing "star" can, in fact, be a galaxy as well - for example, `~zod` (`0x0`) directly issues `~doznec-dozzod` (`0x1.0000`), with no intermediate star.

The hierarchy also extends to moons, `0x1.0000.0000` through `0xffff.ffff.ffff.ffff`. These are your devices and other second-class network citizens. Moons have no reputational identity of their own, because they're just part of their parent - it's like IPv6 having a /64 be the basic allocation unit. Their parent is indicated by the least significant four bytes.

The problem here is that a planet might be issued by a ticketing star, but is a full, free citizen of Urbit. So we don't actually want it to carry around its issuer's name in its own name. Its issuer isn't a secret, it just needs to not be right there in the visible name, so you can't make subconscious associations based on parentage.

To accomplish this, the planet space is pseudorandomly scrambled. (There's a good paper by John Black and Philip Rogaway on generating pseudorandom permutations on domains that aren't simple powers of two. It has a great pseudo-Feistel construction that works extremely well on our domain size of 2^32 - 2^16.) The moon space also has its names adjusted to match that pseudorandom scrambling. So, for example, `0x1.0100` is not `~doznec-marzod`, but `~dardev-ristuc` (scrambling may not be final), which betrays no connection to `~marzod`. Its value as a number is still `0x1.0100`, the scrambling is just part of the phonetic base.

Above `0xffff.ffff.ffff.ffff`, the hierarchy is over, and the phonetic base goes back to being a simple number base again.
