---
type: post
date: ~2016.7.27..20.10.38..fb09
title: Ways that we can improve this forum
author: ~hidseb-pacnet
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Here's an off-the-cuff list of things that we'd like to add to the forum:

* Right now comments are flat.  Seems like a good idea to be able to reply to a comment.
* You can't edit comments — but that's also probably a good idea.  Having some kind of edited-time would be nice, but is a bit more complicated.
* Showing the number of replies in a thread at the top level
* It'd be great to get notifications when someone responds to a thread.  The best way to do this is to allow an email field in the web.plan, and then let people opt-in to getting emails.  The womb uses the gmail api to do this already.
* The up arrow should really take you up two levels.  This is a tree customization.

We started with the bare, bare minimum to get this off the ground.  It'd be nice to keep the feature set as simple as possible — but there's plenty that can be added.  

As with all the things that we build on top of Urbit, it's nice to think of them as reusable in other contexts.  That is, you can easily grab the `fora` code, run it on your own ship, and start your own forum.  

'General-purpose form' isn't really the goal here.  Our reason for putting this up is really simple: we have people who want to learn about Urbit and work on stuff, but we didn't really find Reddit or GitHub issues to be that suitable.  Reddit sorting by upvotes is really undesirable and confusing, and GitHub issues isn't a great place for large architectural discussions or general asynchronous chatter. 

Discourse was certainly an option — but anything that tests the maturity of Urbit is more fun.  In general, I'm strongly biased towards simple, single-purpose solutions rather than something designed for everyone that is difficult to tailor to your specific needs.  A longer post about how I think Urbit is well suited to this product philosophy could be a good idea.

Anyway — happy to hear what others think is needed or missing in what we've started with.