---
type: post
date: ~2017.2.2..00.13.22..ad21
title: How does talk work?
author: ~palfun-foslup
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I've been trying to add polling functionality to talk. So far I've got all the new molds I need, a list of polls in our state, a generator/wizard for creating and configuring polls, and parsing for some in-talk actions like voting and requesting current poll results.

Cool, so my generator can poke talk with a poll-action. One of those is %make, which contains a poll we should add to our state. If a station was provided, the new poll should immediately be sent to that station.

Changing state, I can figure that out most of the time. And I would be able to send a talk message (ie poll) just fine through a %poke move, but why poke talk when our code is already running within it?

The bulk of my questions arise when I look at talk's `++ra` core. Apparently it's like a state machine, but I have trouble following what it does/how it works. I can deduce that if I want to send a message I need to `++ra-consume` it, but that then produces new state, or some modifed `++ra` core, or... ???  
I'm just really confused about how `++ra` works, how I'm supposed to work with it, what _the right approach for "modify state and send message based on poke"_ even is. Are `++ra-fora-post` and friends good examples? What do they even do?  
For some reason I find `=<` and related runes/patterns to be difficult to read. Is that just me? What am I missing?

Code I'm currently working on can be found [here](http://pastebin.com/d9g77Vqf) (without context). If you want/need to see all my changes, apply [this patch](http://pastebin.com/ULkNuUBN) to the current arvo maint branch (49bb97b9).  
Note that `++ra-poll` and `++poke-talk-poll-action`'s `$make` case currently don't compile. This is just how I tried implementing them, to no avail.

If anyone can explain the machinations of talk's `++ra` to me that would be really helpful. I'm sure I can ask more specific, smaller questions, but I'm missing the big picture here and really want to solve that first. (Also talkpolls, I want to get those mostly implemented before next week if possible.)