---
type: post
date: ~2017.7.13..07.15.56..6e2c
title: The long way to brevity
author: ~radtyr-parnym-sitlex-sammul--haplyx-mattul-rinlyr-famben
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Ive been waiting for this moment for a few months now.  My journey to this forum began in May when i first heard of ~urbit through an offhand troll comment in a mongolian catscradle enthusiast board at the bottom of the internet.  Fascinated I read everything I could about it, and first attempted to get it loaded through my desktop.
Except my desktop is an ancient Dell expired mobo that cannot be detected by Sisoft running Windows 10 32 bit and I had to do a dual boot Linux Mint in order to have the files supported.  Oops!  Mint is not supported. :(

Put it on the backburner as I had to move.  Get situated.  Now Im ready to slog however need be.  
Im still getting the hang of bash.  My better setup:
Dell Inspiron 15 7000 series laptop using Windows 10 Creators Update.  Enable Windows Subsystem for Linux - Ubuntu Bash and follow the directions I saw someone else post about, basically to get myself used to typing in terminal.  
Successfully get something going (a planet i think?  Im not quite sure) but it hangs indefinitely at awaiting hood.  If i was better at gitgud id post a screenshot.  Anyways, I sent my failure to Keaton Dunsford who was totally awesome and patient.  He suggested I start an instance from Digital Ocean so thats what I did.  I created a Debian 9.0 instance with a droplet in Digital ocean.  Im totally new to this so it was like walking across town to walk across the street from what I gather.  Steps taken:
1. Debian 9.0 virtual instance
2. Download PuTTy and install.
3. Access debian 9.0 through ssh in PuTTy
4. Create unnecessary ssh key and nearly lock myself out of my OS (cant see wht passphrase im typing!)
5. Finally get debian to behave.  start copy/paste journey through all the various urbit downloads, hoping something will stick
6. Follow every step word-for-word that Keaton graciously sends via email.
7. discover possible bug at https://github.com/urbit/urbit/issues/873
8. discover that -lz stands for zlib and install the 32 bit version.
9.  it works up to $ bin/urbit, whereby my helplessness is starting to grate on my increasing hunger gnawing at my stomach, I send a few more ugly log files and at this point Keaton has added Galen to our correspondence. 
10. It turns out that I may have had a bad pill and so he refers me to download  https://bootstrap.urbit.org/latest.pill , renaming it urbit.pill and booting with -B urbit.pill
11.  after typo disgrace failure and stumbling around like an old drunkard i finally manage to mash my fingers into the correct order to git clone the latest.pill file and rename it urbit.pill 
12.  the comet creation is still failing, so I decide to give it a new comet name instead of the first name i was using.
13. Lucky happy success I cant believe it!  Its been roughly 18 hours or so over 3 days trying to get this booted.  Im now typing this missive from my Windows 10 laptop, having successfully booted a pill into a comet or whathaveyou that is within my virtual debian 9.0 contained within digital ocean.  Technoception achieved.

Should anyone like to view the ugly log failures let me know.

Cheers



