---
type: post
date: ~2016.7.27..19.42.18..ef47
title: Welcome to our discussion board
author: ~raplys-lornex
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

This board was created to fill a need in the Urbit developer and user community for a place to post long-form, persistent content that you can permanently link to.

The talk protocol, as designed, can handle all of the above. But that's *as designed*. In practice, it's just self-logging IRC - but having to read through unstructured conversation logs to get the information you need is not really possible. As a result, there's a lot of "folk knowledge" that you can only obtain by being on talk at the right time to get someone to explain it to you, and you have to remember it or write it down yourself.

This board, as you can see, is light on features - that's because I want it to be heavy on content. For my part, I plan to make top-level posts about the things I currently explain in talk. It's not quite documentation, but it doesn't scroll by, and you can link to it by URL. For your part, anything that merits a discussion thread is encouraged. We have a lot of discussions about features and philosophy that either scroll by in talk or get lost in the jumble on github. I'd like to see them persist on urbit.org, where we (and you!) can have the content, and eventually migrate it into a talk-based platform.

For the source code, visit https://github.com/urbit/fora. That's the frontend, which just fits under tree; it's about 10 lines of Markdown and a stylesheet. There are backend changes as well - I'm about to merge a branch into arvo master called "forum-deployment" or something like that, and the "post" branch was already merged into tree. If you hate the feature-lightness, contributions are definitely welcome.

If you want to post as yourself and not J. Random Comet, make sure you're signed in to your ship via shipname.urbit.org. If you're not a child of ~doznec, this may not work until you |hi ~doznec to become its neighbor.