---
type: post
date: ~2017.10.3..03.04.45..b532
title: The Absolute State of the Urbit Docs
author: ~mastyr-bottec
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I posted my thoughts on the state of Urbit's docs [over on GitHub just now](https://github.com/urbit/docs/issues/137#issuecomment-333725342) and would like to open the discussion to fora as well. 

---

Perhaps this is a stretch for this issue thread, but hey. My thoughts on this and the docs more generally:

~taglux-nidsep and ~rovnys-ricfer are right, first off. There's certainly some truth to the recursive nature of learning Urbit with the docs, as a newbie. There also must be room for both extensive and strict definitions as well as longer discussions in the glossary. I think we're missing a huge point and need to zoom out further, though, regarding the state of the docs and their evolution for efficacy. (By the way, when will the docs begin adhering to Kelvin versioning? ;)

Anywho, let me begin by saying: I am a visual learner. To me, I think it'd be really helpful to have a visualized semantic web for Urbit. Of course, something like this is even more difficult than the improvements to the docs and glossary mentioned above, but I think it may be a worthwhile longterm endeavor to pursue.

Introducing Urbit to people is fairly difficult. Thanks to you guys, what's lacking is not fairly refined technical documentation, complete (mostly) with detailed discussions, examples, tutorials, and exercises. What's lacking is the visual communication. For technically-oriented friends, there has been no greater godsend than the yet unpublished "What is Urbit?" video (which I have not linked, in case someone's looking to get me in trouble..!). The design language and presentation of the high level concepts in the video is clearly quite superb; a similar vision could be applied to the Urbit documentation to make it not only easier to understand Urbit holistically (which technically difficult and technically necessary) but also easier to navigate and dive down into details fluidly without losing sight of Urbit's glorious entirety. After all, we humans are "better than we think" with complex pattern recognition, right?

I'm no graphic designer, but my initial vision here (and I haven't thought much about this) is to present the docs with the circle, just as it is in the video. Urbit really vibes with the circle, man, and the actual architecture is astonishingly concentric isn't it? Each of the layers of the circle (and subsequent pie-like partitions of layers) should be expandable, zoomable if you will, thereby focusing the kernel module or concept at hand. And though a user might be focusing on the center at the moment, checking out the Nock definition, they'd never lose sight of Nock's role in Urbit as a whole because the Urbit pie, so to speak, has just been shrunk, slightly desaturated, and moved to the top of his screen... or something like that!

Honestly, Urbit is quite beautiful, the more you learn about it. The docs are beautiful too, but I don't think they yet do justice. What do you guys think? Also, where's the guy who built all those awesome Urbit interface mockups?

---