## `~palfun-foslup`
>the four character names which can be represented in 31 bits

Actually didn't know that was a motivating factor, that's pretty neat. I went with short names to comply with Hoon style, but you're right that readability should be high priority. On the other hand, `replace-first` feels super long in comparison to pretty much any other function you're likely to see in Hoon code, though I guess that will change with time.  
Clearer names incoming. Are variable names still fine, or would you suggest making those more verbose too? (`nedl` => `needle`, `res` => `result`/`index`, `l` => `length`, etc.)

I feel there's still room for performance improvements here and there (see `::TODO  Be less lazy`). Must admit I don't actually know how a slightly modified version of an stdlib function stacks up against calling 2-3 (jetted) stdlib functions though. (ie a custom `fand` that stops at the `n`th result, a `find` that starts at the back, etc.)

`|_` was used because I wanted to avoid repetitive `|=  {str/tape etc}`. It seemed like a cleaner thing to do at the time, but does make the calling uglier– kind of an awful tradeoff to make now that I think about it.

Arvo itself currently doesn't do that good a job of inline documentation. Part of the problem, I feel, is that the default comment style is "start at char 57 on the same line", which leaves 19 characters for actual comment text if you want to stay <80. This doesn't encourage readable documentation. Looking at hoon.hoon on master, function comments are almost as brief as their names.  
Of course, you have to ask if you want full sentence documentation there (in most cases you can nearly copy-paste what the docs pages say), but my naive eyes don't see any real negatives in that.

Doccords sounds like a really good idea. Keep us updated on your efforts!

Thanks for your feedback ~ponnys, much appreciated!