## `~sorreg-namtyv`
As for the license: it's always a good choice to be conservative, but MangledMUD is posted on GH and thus is required to follow the GH open licensing rules.  Or something.  I am not a lawyer.  But I think if you could put it in GH you can post it on Urbit.  Certainly the license restrictions ("please credit the author") don't seem super onerous.

Not that we wouldn't love to see you come by Tlon if you're (ever) in the Bay Area!  You've earned a lifetime guest pass.  Or something.  

We might also be very interested in taking this codebase and "preening" it as an example -- if, again, the licensing thing can be resolved.  It's often super great just to be worried about code style and quality, not about what the code actually does.  We need a much larger menagerie of preened, high-quality examples.

You've experienced a number of reasons we don't go out and ask people to do this level of development -- if it's totally voluntary and warned, running into brambles is expected. 

`++si` and similar libraries need to use a `^?` to block things like `gth` from bubbling up through their contexts.  I would definitely kill the `-1`, `-2`, `-3`, etc.

It definitely looks like your code, like any complicated nested core, would benefit from the use of =^.  I cannot endorse the recommendation to go down the category theory rathole, however, unless you normally use sulfuric acid to clean your dishes.

All that `=^(a b c d)` does is to compute `c`, expect it to produce a cell, `=+` the head of the cell under the name `a`, `=.` the tail of the cell into `b`, and compute `d` with that subject.

Normally the way we work with states like your `all` is to write arms that produce either the whole core, or a cell designed for `=^` that mimics the `[result new-state]` product of imperative computing.  So if you produced the core instead of just the state, your code would look like:

`(calculate:(log:(queue args) event) thing)`

which is much cleaner, don't you think?