## `~polrut-tarmud-fogrym-hinryc--nappet-nidryx-dozbep-marzod`
Strongly disagree that "turn", "roll", "skip" are any more semantically detached than "map", "fold", "filter".

The 31 bit thing is definitely a red herring; though you would get 8 characters, not 7, as the @t representation is not 7-bit ascii but rather 8-bit utf8

I disagree that you actually want a map operation everywhere.

- lists, sure.
- set map I've seen a couple times but it's rare and so not in the standard library
- dict has two different maps neither of which replace the keys
- queues generally have existing elements left alone
- unit bind *could* be called map in a monadic sense, but I really can't think of any code where I mean to use a unit and instead use a list but the result should still compile.

As far as using doors vs explicitly passing the accumulator as the first arg of a gate in a sampleless core, my preferred solution is to add `(put~in a b)` sugar for calling the former, but it shouldn't make a huge difference. 

Generally agreed on gate argument principles.

1. Don't do it in low level libraries, don't do it in high level libraries. The only place you really want to return a final `+>.$` instead of having an `++abet` is if you're closing over state whose type your caller doesn't want to know about: apps, vanes, crypto while in the middle of a sequence of operations for efficiency reasons.

2. Yeah, though since it's technically unavoidable unless your sample is an atom, I'd describe this as "`|= [a b] ^+ b` wherever feasible".

3. Conversely, gates should in fact come last, overriding the previous point. I think almost everything in the system does already follows this, with the exception of ++bond which is curried for no good reason

~pittyp-datfyn