## `~barpub-tarber`
I'm pleased to see this discussion. 


I'm afraid I need to start by advocating for the existing name for stations. If we dig into the etymology of the words (as we should), "station" comes from the same root as "stand", and refers to "a place one habitually occupies". It is closely related to "status". "Circle", by contrast, is a familiar geometric form. We find ourselves replacing a description with an analogy. Rarely is this the right move. 


There is a movie in theaters, right now, called The Circle. It is about a creepy dystopian corporate cult that runs a social network. This is not energy we want to borrow in scaling urbit. Circles are what Google+ uses, the most notorious failure in all of social networking. Again, this suggests that our semantic web rejects this use of that concept. 


There is also the matter of preposition. We can say "there's a station I'm on", but must, by English law, say "there's a circle I'm *in*". That is too much belonging. I might hang out on a station that reflects politics I don't subscribe to, for any number of reasons. I'm definitely on it, and just as definitely, I'm not *in* it. 


"Channel" is another perfectly cromulent word. It has no advantages I can see relative to station, but at least it isn't worse. "Group" is kind of mushy and generic, and has the same prepositional issue as circle. But at least it doesn't lean in a cult-like direction with a whiff of failure. 


To address discoverability, I believe we need exactly one thing: the ability to generate a URL which, when clicked, subscribes the user to that station. Note that you can't subscribe to a circle or group, you must join them; this is the on vs. in distinction again. Joining is too much commitment for me! 


Our present Internet has a bewildering, almost overwhelming number of avenues for discovery. Let's allow them to do the heavy lifting. Urbit.org could have a list of stations that volunteer to be the plazas of the growing community, with a link at the top of the home page. When this is insufficient, someone else can write a search engine, or tlon can, and that can be the top link on the community page. We should try to stick to solving the problems we actually have. Finding new content on the Internet is not one of those problems. 


Some online communities have resisted evaporative cooling for decades. The Well and Metafilter are good examples. What they have in common is a barrier to entry (usually) and good moderation. Providing station hosts with tools for moderation should be all that's needed to stave off the evaporative cooling effect. Urbits are personal; my house, my rules. Common spaces that are federated across multiple host urbits will have challenges in preventing the tragedy of the commons, to be sure, but not insurmountable ones. 


The tools for community moderation are all fairly familiar at this point: black and whitelists, shadowbanning, ability to remove posts. Urbit is happily resistant to editing another ship's post, since content is signed and provenance can be established; we only have to take a look at reddit to know that putting words in someone else's mouth is bad news. I see no reason why a whitelist-only private station, one with careful host moderation, should suffer the evaporative cooling effect, and I see no reason to resist it in public spaces with a laissez-faire attitude. Even shadowbanning should be uncommon, since the motivating force is normally the troll's tendency to come back under another username. It's a useful temporary chastisement for otherwise valuable community members who occasionally go off the rails. 


This is a good discussion to be having, and I thank you for bringing it up. 