## `~sorreg-namtyv`
Great question.  %jael remains a work in progress, at least as far as these areas go, but the answer definitely needs to be "no" and "yes."

Internal security is part of the next round of Arvo updates, and there's a couple of different ways of solving this problem.  The leading approach is just to move the security driver from %eyre into %jael, so that the secure channel is immediately accessible to it.  Another approach is to develop a sense of application categories in %gall, and put security drivers in there.

Two points need to be clear.  One, we don't have a single driver for any API; we have a security driver and a gateway.  :twit is the gateway.  The security driver's job is to let the gateway make HTTP requests as if there was no security, rate limiting, etc.  The gateway's job is to translate the API into an Urbit-oriented poke-and-subscribe interface.  The security driver needs these secrets; the gateway doesn't see them and shouldn't.

The second point is the general design of internal security.  There's no security between vanes; all vanes are fully trusted.  User-level applications can send the same moves that a vane can, but %gall has a whitelist filter to prevent inappropriate privilege.

Right now there's only one kind of %gall app.  I think we'll move toward separate categories of app, each with their own privilege model.  For example, an API gateway should essentially obey the same-origin principle and shouldn't do anything security-critical that doesn't involve talking to the specific site; that way, sites which export their own APIs can write their own gateways and the user can install them, without trusting them more than you trust a webpage.