## `~sorreg-namtyv`
I am the new ~tasfyn-partyv... just back from the beach!

First, the comment about Kafka is correct.  Basically, Urbit is designed to recreate the computing experience of 1986, but it's definitely meant to be run on a 2016 platform.  This means a replicated backend for which the term "backup" doesn't really make sense -- when was the last time you backed up your Gmail or your S3 buckets?

Delving a little more deeply, the "right" way to run an urbit is on a Raft/Paxos cluster (like Kafka) in which a packet isn't acknowledged until it's in memory on three separate machines (ideally, separate data centers in the same region with low-latency links between them).  It's easy to get as many nines as a good old 1986 tape drive this way.

In reality, someone wrote a Kafka event subsystem but it's not currently integrated.  Kafka is also a small pain in the butt to manage.  There are also various log-as-a-service providers, but I'm not sure they're low-latency enough to handle packet-as-a-transaction behavior.  The bottom line, however, is that in a mature environment, hosting your own urbit on your own hardware is basically something you want to do if you're Edward Snowden or Ross Ulbricht.  In which case, build your own Kafka cluster out of RasPis, or something.

There's also a second answer, which is something I'm working on currently: how, in a system with permanent networking (durable sessions, which enable exactly-once delivery), you can recover connectivity from a brainfart.  In Urbit, when you ack a packet, that's a serious commitment: you're saying, I have heard your packet and I'm not going to forget it.  It is quite literally a transaction.  But if your brain does get damaged, for whatever reason, it would be nice to be able to keep your identity and/or state.

The next version of %ames networking will have a feature where you can update your key with a "rough transition" -- meaning that you lost your mind, certainly including your session state, and possibly everything but the actual cryptographic secrets.  Semantically, what this tells anyone who knows you is that they can't rely on you having, or not having, any information they sent you.  

Does this lose exactly-once delivery?  Definitely, but not in a way the programmer has to worry about, because the whole point is that it's your fault and your problem when you lose your mind/brain.  It is not your friends' problem.  They can reset their sessions and keep talking to you, with the knowledge that you're a confused individual who was found staggering in the park and has no memory of last night.  You are still you, however, so they should be nice.

This is obviously a vague description -- more details as they become available. :-)