## `~palfun-foslup`
### Notes on the talk API and client implementation

The broker does "the heavy lifting", but still leaves a lot of light work up to the readers. For example, readers can instruct a broker to send messages, but they have to send an entire thought. The client should not be responsible for, say, generating a message serial when that's something the broker can handle perfectly fine.  
Similarly, I'm currently working on implementations for `;invite` and `;banish` for modifying blacklists (channels, mailboxes) and whitelists (journals, villages). I find myself doing checks on the station type and constructing an updated config within the reader, and even building an `%inv` message to send! These are all things the broker should take care of, because they will be (should be) implemented that way for all readers.

If we want to make talk an easy platform to use for messaging applications, it needs a better API. The current `command` structure works, but isn't as simple as it could be. The broker also has no way of sending an informative message back to the reader if anything fails, so doing checks on the reader-side is currently mandatory if you want to be able tot ell your user what is up.

```
++  action                                              ::  user action
  $%  {$create (pair knot (pair cord posture))}         ::  configure + destroy
      {$permit (trel knot ? (set ship))}                ::  invite/banish
      {$say (list (trel audience statement))}           ::  originate
      ::  probably include ++update in this.            ::
  ==                                                    ::
++  reaction                                            ::  user information
  $:  kind/?($info $fail)                               ::  result
      what/@t                                           ::  explain
      why/(unit action)                                 ::  cause
  ==                                                    ::
```

You want the broker to do as much lifting as possible, so that readers don't have to reimplement the same things over and over again. The structure above helps the reader instruct the broker in a simpler, more low-effort way, and enables the broker to pass on a potential failure cause.  
(Readers can of course chose to not display all `reaction`s they get. At this point I don't think it's worth implementing something like error codes for readers to display their own custom messages, but very much possibly to add that in the future if it becomes desirable.)

All opinions welcome! (I sure am keeping myself busy, haha.)