## `~mastyr-harlud`
"Urbit is a personal server so easy to use even your grandma will want one!" -- Curtis and Galen, probably.  

In all honesty (and in my humble opinion), Urbit is *most* compelling right now to people who at least roughly understand the Internet as it is today, why Facebook is the new AOL, and so on. You and I and most people browsing fora know why Urbit is so important and so revolutionary already. Alas, we are the few.  

It's up to Tlon, early adopters, contributors and developers (us) to build Urbit into the former (grandma's server): a general purpose computer (an "urbit") that is so useful/convenient/easy that any adult understand its inherent utility and value. (By the way, I do think "urbit" is just catchy and foreign enough to catch hold and eventually become synonymous with "server of the future".) 

The fact is that Urbit isn't ready for a pitch to the general public yet! I'm new to Urbit-- I wish I had stumbled upon it earlier-- but, if I'm not mistaken, it seems to me that Urbit's biggest contributors want Urbit *itself* to be the pitch. In other words, when anyone can spin up an Urbit, claim an identity, connect all their "old Internet" accounts, send cash, etc., etc. with not only great ease but also with direct and palatable awareness of the profound implications Urbit has for their own digital freedom, *THEN* Urbit won't need some crazy guy (Curtis, looking at you :) blabbing about the future of personal computing at you in the elevator!  

Just my humble opinion; great thread! I'd be interested in hearing how others' first conversations about Urbit to other techies have been. I have some funny stories, and Urbit certainly always makes for an interesting and meaningful conversation, in my experience.