## `~mopbet-panpes-hosfun-navwyc--nodpex-donnyt-dozdux-binzod`
I haven't really talked to other people about urbit because I don't understand it much myself, but I like this thread because maybe I'm starting to get it...  Privacy, for me, is definitely a meh but the time-suck aspect is why I've never had a facebook account.  I got suckered with linkedin for "professional development" purposes but quickly realized that their corporate interests and my own, needless to say, were not aligned and I haven't logged in since.

Building on OP's response, all of the internet is going the time-suck route because time-on-site is the currency of content providers and channels.  Blogs, news, youtube, etc.  Tristan Harris has written on this.  Urbit may be a huge step in the right direction for several reasons.  Most importantly, to me, is that it completely destroys the channel business models of facetube/youbook/twitter/instachat/snapgram which, arguably, are of net negative social value.   Ditto for the advertisement ecosystem that supports the channels which is less arguably of negative social value.  To replace advertisements, at this stage in its development, Urbit could integrate with cryptocurrency-based micro-payment systems at a fairly low-level to properly align the interests of content/UX producers and consumers.  That is, now that consumers pay the pipers, they call the tune.  Finally, reputation systems could change the metrics that drive profitability from clickbaitiness or *shudder* virality to something a little more healthy like "did I actually value the 20 minutes I spent on that?"

The killer app may be something that acts as a "digital agent" that actually has your interests at, err, heart.  Like some sort of paternalistic content discovery/social media/e-commerce platform. 

So maybe the elevator pitch is: "you know how last night you hated yourself for watching stupid youtube videos for 2 hours after looking up how to install a wijit, got drunk in disgust, ordered a $200 darth vader mask, and sexted your married ex-girlfriend?  Urbit is like the internet without that..."