## `~pittyp-datfyn`
There even being one-nybble literal axes is definitely going in the direction of saving memory, perhaps too far; the "utf8"ish option for that would be "`0`-`7` are literal, `8`-`f` is a length header that designates 1-8 following nybbles", which can be further extended as "and the 4 byte option is an address". Really this depends on what axes are common, `0`, `2`, `6` and `7` definitely pop up a lot but I'd have to look at hoon compiler output for more details.

Also you could have different encodings for `0` and `9`: you don't necessarily need an escape syntax for `0` because you can blatantly chain multiple together, and the 50% overhead for longer axes might be worth the simpler interpreter / cheaper common ones. Meanwhile `1` probably wants the pointer variant to take up less space, possibly with a table immediately before the bytecode block that lists what literals it uses.

---

Nock 11 is provided by the arvo "nock in nock", and dereferences the global immutable namespace. When you say `+cat %/web/static/md` in the shell, this invokes hoon `.^(@t %cx /~taglux-nidsep/home/~2017.3.14/web/static/md)`¹, which compiles to `[11 [1 [%atom %t] %cx '~taglux-nidsep' 'home' '~2017.3.14' 'web' 'static' 'md' 0]]`. This is then processed by the virtual interpreter as a request to the `c`lay vane for the e`x`act² value of `static.md`, with a type of `[%atom %t]`³, and either returned immediately with no side effects, or processed by the evaluation environment(probably the `%ford` vane) to request the information. When the data is locally available, the computation continues, as if `clay` had a local mirror of the entire network all along.

¹ or rather, it invokes hoon `.^(@t %cx path-passed-in-from-shell)`, which is nock `[11 [1 [%atom %t]] [1 %cx] [0 6]` for some value of `6`.

² okay I actully have no idea why `%x` is `%x`, but e.g. `%y` is "list directory contents", and `%w` can get you a revision number from a date/label. `~sorreg`, do you remember where in the clay doc this would be?

³ actually this should be `[%base %atom %t]`; a `++span`, as defined by hoon language internals. It is only used to abort if the `.^` result is incompatible: if you say `.^(* ...)`, i.e. "noun", you'll always get the same result value as on a(successful) request with a more specific type.

---

It does not have anything to do with understanding the Urbit VM as it stands, except insofar as providing the intuition that nock is isomorphic to entirely imperative linear(but with branches and calls) etc code. My goal for the instruction set is to provide a starting point for JIT strategy, and show off how "small" nock is because seriously _nybblecode_
