## `~pittyp-datfyn`
A more verbose instruction table:


## Stack manipulation

- `d` is `dup`, and pushes a copy of the top-of-stack noun onto the stack
- `e` is `swap`(`Exchg`), and exchanges the top of the stack with the second-topmost noun.
- `c` is `cons`, and pops two nouns off the stack, pushing the cell `[second-topmost topmost]`.

## TOS Operators

These affect the top noun of the stack.

- `0` is the nock "at" operator, which indexes a subtree of the TOS noun. It is followed by an argument of one or more¹ nybbles, encoding a binary index.
- `1` is the nock "lit" operator, and replaces TOS with a literal. It is also followed by one or more¹ nybbles, encoding the literal.
- `3` is the nock "cel" operator, and replaces TOS with `0` if it a cell, or `1` if it is an atom.
- `4` is the nock "inc" operator, and increments TOS if it as an atom, crashing on a cell.

## Top-two operators

These pop two nouns, and push a result onto the stack.

- `2` is the nock "nock" operator, and runs top-of-stack formula against the second-topmost new subject. This is perhaps not actually common enough to deserve its own nybble, but I wanted parity for all the nock opcodes :P
- `5` is the "eq" operator, and pushes `0` if the nouns are equal, and `1` if they are not.
- `8` is nock "pin", equivalent to `swap cons`, and replaces the top two nouns with the cell `[topmost second-topmost]`

## Control flow

- `f` unconditionally jumps forward. The byte following encodes the jump address²; if the 6 is the first nybble of its containing byte, the second nybble is ignored (/ "should always be 0" or sth).
- `6` is the nock "if" operator: it pops a noun off the stack, jumps forward if the noun is `1`, and continues if the noun is `0`. It also has an address² following-byte argument.
- `9` is the nock "run" operator, and jumps to the formula at a given index in TOS, pushing the current location onto the return stack. It is followed by an argument of one or more¹ nybbles, encoding a binary index.

## Other

- `b` is reserved for "virtual" nock 11, with stack effects the same as e.g. `3`
- `a` is nock 10 "hint", and consumes TOS to supply the interpreter information about the following code. Due to common usage, the following four or more¹ bytes are a hint identifier atom such as `%slog`.
- `7`, nock "with", is generally implicit in concatenation. However, `[7 [10 x a] b]` is not actually the same as `[10 x [7 a b]]`, because stack traces are confined to a specific scope of nock formula, as is memoization etc. Correspondingly, a `7` is emitted by every `a`, to denote when its scope ends. The side-effect handlers from this can probably also be saved on the return stack. (For the memoization case, `a` should probably also have a forward-jump length; though having both mechanisms might be excessive)

¹ There is a TBD variable-width scheme for this, but small constants like `1` or `6` seem like they should be one nybble, and larger ones should be possible to encode.
² Relative vs absolute adress, formulas of >256 bytes, etc. will also need to be handled, but fixed jump is sufficient for toy examples.