## `~pittyp-datfyn`
Wow, I just meant that as an abstract of what might be made to work, that's some dedicated digging! :D

`pin` is `let` is nock 8, cons a value onto the head of the subject. Dedicated googling probably wouldn't help much, I think I stole all the menumoncs from an Ax explanation I can no longer find.

A slightly dirty trick I pulled is that `if` is actually an alias to `dup`, and `then` is the actual `6` operator: which is a conditional jump past the matching `else`, and that in turn is an unconditional jump to the label `fi`.

`dup at 2 swap dup at 6 inc inc swap at 7 cons cons` is imo a lot more readable as `[ /2 . [ /6 + + . /7 ] ]`, i.e. "construct the noun `[/2 +(+(/6)) /7]`", which is almost the noun `[/2 [/6 /7]]` or `[/2 /3]` or `/1`(`[0 1]`). It's doing the gate thing where the sample is replaced, and the rest of the core is passed through unchanged; but nock is at a low enough level that every cons necessary is explicit.

---

The labels are indeed memory locations: they contextualize jumps and @, and are not present in the final binary.

@8 is me wimping out of converting things to hex proper, it would probably be some manner of relative position in the machine code file, "a label to the code +3 bytes from here". Conceptually, it is pushing the $ noun as a constant, this just got inlined to an already-jitted version of the target nock.

`10` is not a conditional instruction, I appear to have utterly omitted the `6` opcodes, whoops >.<
(And a `dup` in the recursion, which you also caught later down)

Updated version:

```
# 0-9 Cons Dup Exchg Forward-jmp
# jump targets are byte-aligned

                 05           .main len
00: d 1 0 8                   dup lit 0 pin
             d 1 @8           dup lit @loop pin
04: 8        
      9 2                     run 2

                 1b           .loop len
08: d d 0 7  e 0 6 5          if dup at 7 swap at 6 eq then
0c: 6   11
             1 0                lit 0
                 f            else
10: 26
        d d  0 7 e 0          if dup at 7 swap at 6 inc eq then
14: 6 4 5 6  1a
                 1 1            lit 1
18: f   22                    else
             d 0 2 e            dup at 2 swap
1c: d 0 6 4  4 e 0 7              dup at 6 inc inc swap at 7 cons
20: c
      c 9 2                     cons run 2
             (0 1)            fi fi


.main  (length=) 05
00: d 1 0 8  d 1 @8
04: 8 9 2 
.loop  (length=) 1a
08: d d 0 7  e 0 6 5
0c: 6   11   1 0 f  
10: 22  d d  0 7 e 0
14: 6 4 5 6  1a  1 1
18: f   22   d 0 2 e
1c: d 0 6 4  4 e 0 7
20: c c 9 2  (0 1)
```

Your confusion is entirely correct.

The `(0 1)` is a NOP landing pad for the `else`s, and not strictly necessary. The purpose of the `length` at the beginning of each jump is a `COMEFROM` of sorts, executing a `return` when a formula is finished. This would probably be way better implemented as an explicit `ret` operator at the end of a given procedure: I ran out of nybbles, but perhaps `9 0` could be repurposed as "backwards call".