## `~palfun-foslup`
If nobody can see a cause for this `%drum-coup-fail` weirdness, is there at least a recommended way to debug this?  
This is pretty blocking for me. As a last resort I could always implement `;poll` and `;vote` (for requesting results and voting respectively) into the generator, since that seems to be working fine, but that seems like a terrible user experience.  
Suggestions for alternative ways to implement "send poke when given a talk ;command" are also welcome, but I doubt we want to stray from the `++work` structure.

Below are some observations I've made throughout the day that I feel may be of use in figuring this out.

* When sending a poke to our own ship, the poke does go through and is received by talk, but in a temporary generic `++poke` arm I set up, not the `++poke-talk-poll-interaction` arm I had thought it would go to because of the wire I'm using. Might be because I'm misunderstanding some of those mechanics.
* When sending a poke to another ship, it gets to the debug printf telling us it is about to do so, but the poke is never received by the other ship. (`%drum-coup-fail` is still triggered) (I can `|hi` just fine)
* Making the poke as such: `sh.ra-abet:(ra-emit:ra (poll-poke u.p.id q.id))` causes the command I entered to remain in the talk prompt, until a keypress triggers the `%drum-coup-fail`.
* On the other hand, doing: `..sh-work:sh(moves [(poll-poke u.p.id q.id) moves])` empties the talk prompt, but still triggers the `%drum-coup-fail`.
* Triggering the `%drum-coup-fail` also prints `[%receive-sync [%his 17 0] %own 0 0]` before the stack trace. `17` isn't a static value.
* Upon re`|link`ing talk, it says `[%talk-peer-replaced 2 i=%~.sole t=/]` before spitting out the usual status and chat lines. So it got a `peer` with wire `/sole`.
* Doing: `..sh-work(moves [(poll-poke u.p.id q.id) moves])` and variations of this "work" in that they clear the prompt and don't trigger a `%drum-coup-fail`, but pokes to remote ships still don't go through.

What I suspect is causing the drum-fail is some weirdness with talk's shell not being updated properly, causing attempts to apply changes to it to fail. I've (maybe?) verified this by adding printfs to `++sh-stir` and observing that `say.she` (shell state) has an empty buffer despite the prompt displaying text prior to our keypress. Apparently the way I produce `..sh-work` fails to update the shell properly?

No idea why pokes are only reaching the local ship though.

Does that give any ideas?