## `~tonweb-pilseb`
Thinking about it more, I am not so sure if any separate snippets and some elaborate way of running them should be a thing. I think my desire to have some sort of online runner stems from the fact that for now Urbit is rather slow; This obviously will change in future. 

Code junk can be alleviated just by putting stuff into directories. 

I would definitely like to keep live compilation. If anything, it could even run automatically in the editor (or bind it some convenient shortcut, like ctrl-k), while ctrl-s would work the normal way without strange behaviour when you can't save a file because it does not compile. 

I think the Urbit way should be to keep things as simple as possible, and not more. 
When it comes to snippets/scrolls, essentially snippet sharing is just one remote +cat away, with some nice front-end on top. Urbit being as amazing as it is, makes that possible already. The only thing that's missing is UI sugar. It would be nice to have some sort of integration with means of communication. Eg, for now if I want to share a snippet, I will have to 

1. ;join ~martianbro
2. "Hello martianbro. Get this snippet from myship /mydeck/app/snippets/this-particular-snippet.hoon"
3. ~martianbro copy-paste the path to +cat or saves to clay.

Ideally, we will have front-end integration where talk can recognize this kind of messages and allows 'auto-opening'/saving.

TL;DR;

I would like to back down on my ideas a bit :-)
I want to keep only on-line code compilation. 
The rest of stuff is already inside Urbit, and just need some convenient interface.


