## `~taglux-nidsep`
I absolutely want to go down the rabbit hole.  But, my eyes---I've never used them before...

[Why do my eyes hurt?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_6q51Htw5gY#t=03m13s)

That is, my background is, for the most part, worlds away from CS stuff.  I had to look up what a stack machine was on wikipedia.  Some of these commands were tough to find using my feeble google-fu---particularly `pin`---so figuring out what they do was a bit like trying to solve a riddle.  I ask for a little patience and a little help to see if I can understand what you've written.

Your nock program is transparent to me.  I think I can understand the first transformation pretty well.  The second one---well, I think I get it, but I want to be sure.

    .main
    dup lit 0 pin
    dup lit @loop pin
    run 2

First, `dup lit 0 pin`.  We have some input as the topmost thing on the stack, let's call it N.  The first `dup` function copies that and pushes it onto the stack, so now we have two of 'em.  The `lit 0` erases the topmost N and pushes a `0` onto the stack, and the `pin` command "pins", or concatenates the 0 onto the next highest stack entity.  So the stack now has a tuple on top, `[0 N]`.

The same thing happens with `dup lit @loop pin`, except that instead of 0 we're concatenating a label, @loop.  The result is that `[@loop [0 N]]` is now at the top of the stack.  `run 2` says execute the instructions at the location mentioned at tree address #2.

    .loop
    if dup at 7 swap at 6 eq then
       lit 0
    else

We go to .loop and first we need to assess the truth value of the conditional's antecedent.  The top thing on the stack is still the subject, `[@loop [0 N]]`, so we duplicate that to get two of 'em.  The `at 7` erases one of those and pushes `N` on top of the stack.  The `swap` command reverses the order of the top two things on the stack so `N` is now below the subject.  The `at 6` erases the subject and pushes the `0` on top.  The `eq` command checks the top two things on the stack for equality, erases both (?), and then pushes either `true` or `false` on top.  (This could be 0 or 1, or whatever, depending on how the system works.)  Whichever one is there determines the next thing to execute.

If `true`, then `lit 0` erases that and pushes `0` on top.  Program ends.

If `false`, then we move on to...

    if dup at 7 swap at 6 inc eq then
       lit 1
    else

Everything is basically the same here, except there is an `inc` command that adds 1 to whatever is on top of the stack.

       dup at 2 swap dup at 6 inc inc swap at 7 cons cons run 2
    fi fi

`dup` takes the subject, `[@loop [0 N]]`, and duplicates it, so we have two of them on top.  `at 2` replaces the top one with `@loop`, and then `swap` puts the `[@loop [0 N]]` on top of the `@loop` in the stack, swapping the order.  `dup` duplicates the subject again, so now the stack is:

`[@loop [0 N]]`
`[@loop [0 N]]`
`@loop`

The `at 6` erases the top one and pushes `0` on top of the stack:

`0`
`[@loop [0 N]]`
`@loop`

The `inc` command twice increments the top thing by 2:

`2`
`[@loop [0 N]]`
`@loop`

...and then another `swap`:

`[@loop [0 N]]`
`2`
`@loop`

`at 7` replaces the top thing with `N`:

`N`
`2`
`@loop`

The first `cons` command takes the top two things and turns them into a single-entry tuple:

`[2 N]`
`@loop`

And the second `cons` makes that: `[@loop [2 N]]`.

`run 2` executes the instructions referred to at address # 2 of the thing on top, at `@loop`.  The `fi` commands indicate the scope of the previous `if`s and `else`s.

This seems to match what I think the program should be doing, so I don't think I can be too far off.  More to come on the last transformation...