## `~midmer-tapsud-fopnyl-patned--livrel-mipbes-dozput-binzod`
This is Curtis (now ~sorreg-namtyv, although SSO seems to be on the fritz for me right now)...

The short answer is: stay tuned for just a moment, as new, publicly-workable-on vanes are coming.

The medium answer is: I am currently refactoring %ames (well, I've actually completely rewritten %ames; the rewrite compiles but is untested), and splitting out all the PKI stuff into a new secret management vane, %jael (whose interface only is designed).  Tomorrow we'll post a development update which will explain all this.  My goal is to get the absolute minimum version of a working %ames and %jael by myself, then turn everything else into publicly accessible tasks.

I think I've decided to put the simplest, most minimal possible names back into the certificate in the new %jael.  Separating human-meaningful identity information out into a higher-level layer creates a layer of indirection that you just don't want, and that can be an attack vector.  However, very old versions of Urbit had way too much identity in the cert.  More information might, or might not, involve something like the %kahn idea (friends, contacts, reputation, etc); but let's get %jael right first.

Here's my design -- now is as good a time as any for your feedback!

Only planets have human identity data.  Stars and galaxies can just indicate the planet which owns them.  No one should be interacting as a naked star or galaxy, though of course we can't stop you.  Identifying your owner is just a comment, with no formal meaning.

Planets can publish a list of well-known fields, like: handle/nickname, surname, given name, company name, email address.  You can set as many of these as you like.  In fact, these might be the only five we need -- or we might in future add inferior, off-brand, competing social services.  But Urbit is not Keybase (not right now) and there is no actual proof of these identities.

I still think that in most cases, a planet should be displayed as the Urbit name.  But that's a social decision.  I do think it's important, however, to allow for human names directly bound in the cert (++will).  The level of indirection involved in retrieving declared names from some other service, and of course using cryptography to authenticate those declarations, just gives me the "too many things could go wrong" vibe.

I'll have more details as they become available -- it should be possible to put up a %jael draft quite soon, probably by early next week.

Would love to hear anyone or everyone else's opinion on this tentative decision!