## `~ravmel-ropdyl`
Oof!  Sorry for the slow reply.  Spent last week deep in the code.  We've made pretty good progress, and there's still more to do.  My branch of `tree` is here: [github.com/galenwp/tree/tree/es6](https://github.com/galenwp/tree/tree/es6).

The switch to redux was pretty painful, but I think it forced us to clean up `tree` in the right ways.  Since we're about to do a bunch more client-side work it's also great to get familiar with the state of the art in React land.  I still have more components to convert, and Anton is finishing up the server side renaming.  I think a few of his PRs just went through on master.

Anyway, I'll (finally) respond to your points in order:

### `tree-json`

I generally agree that it'd be nice to have some kind of server-side rendering.  It's true that the 'right' way to do this is with some kind of JS runtime bolted on eventually.  The main thing we really should support is basically just some kind of `%ford`-style includes.  That is, you need to be able to pull in your siblings / kids on the server, rather than relying on the `<list />` or `<kids />` components.

I'm afraid we probably wont make it quite that far right now.  We looked at switching to just having `tree-json` go away in lieu of loading HTML directly.  (You can get raw HTML by just asking for the `.html`, by the way.)  This could be a good idea.  In the mean time we're going to make the `tree-json` encoding a lot less cryptic.

### `tree` extension

We actually already have this.  Check out the way that `:talk` gets loaded.  `tree` is set up to allow a module to load in custom components, JS and CSS.  [urbit.org/stream](https://urbit.org/stream) does this as well.

Oh, I even wrote some docs about it: [urbit.org/docs/using/web/#-module-basics](http://urbit.org/docs/using/web/#-module-basics).

### `:wish`/namespace endpoint

I think Anton has some thoughts on this.  

### `%clay`

We backed away from the raw `%clay` methods due to issues with our error handling.  I'd really, really, really like to get the PUT and POST methods in, but it's not practical.  Happy to go into more detail here.

`/on` is a notification that one of a `%ford`-collected set of `%clay` paths has updated.

### `%gall`

Good question.  I tend to hold on to the idea that some programmers may never really dive deeply into Urbit, and may just write frontend code.  Because of that, I want to try to keep our frontend naming as conventional as possible.

The way you put it is correct.  And we should include that in the documentation.

### Sockets

WebSockets would be great — but I think that's a change that'd go all the way from `urb.js` to C.  want to work on it?