## `~digser-misset-sicbex-nopnel--bidlet-lornyd-lagbyr-fodlyd`
I'm excited by the move to ES6, even though I don't care too much for ES6 -- I 
just never learned CoffeeScript ... I should be able to contribute more going
forward.

### tree-json

I have a request for the tree/Markdown rendering path (this was discussed on
`urbit-meta`, but I'll summarize here for posterity). Currently, markdown files
are converted to HTML, then converted to "tree-json" and embedded in an HTML
page. Finally, the tree-json is then rendered to HTML via dynamic React
components. This approach supports dynamic-updates without page refreshes.

My request is for "partial server-side rendering"; before I explain what I mean
by that, let me recap React server-side rendering. React components can be
rendered to a string instead of a DOM node -- they are pure, one-way functions
of their properties. That rendering can be performed server-side in a JS
runtime and sent to the client, along with initial component state, where React
can wire up event listeners without unnecessary re-rendering. This client
pre-initialization, not traditional server-side web programming  -- it doesn't
replace your API layer, but reduces "time to content" and helps crawlers.

Someday, Urbit may have a JS runtime, in which case server-side React rendering
will be easy and natural. In the meantime, I'd like to see "partial server-side
rendering" -- by that, I simply mean embedding the Markdown-converted HTML 
directly in the page, in place of the "tree-json". This doesn't include 
pre-rendering embedded React components or initializing their state, but it
should be a performance boost, and would be a big help to crawlers and limited
web clients. Dynamic updates could still be supported, either with tree-json,
or just new HTML strings.

I haven't tested this approach, and I'm not sure that React can easily attach
event listeners without the initial component state. It could be hacked together 
with `dangerouslySetInnerHtml()`, but ... Alternately, there's some libraries
for identifying and activating React components in HTML strings;
[https://github.com/aknuds1/html-to-react](https://github.com/aknuds1/html-to-react)
seems to be a good one. It walks the DOM looking for React components, and has
callback hooks for custom element handling.

### tree extension

I haven't thought about this much, so I don't really have specific requests. But ...

It'd be really nice to have a standard approach for extending or customizing
tree, especially within the context of Markdown files. Specifically, some way
to specify custom CSS, or to include additioanl React components would be really
nice.

### :wish/namespace endpoint

I think it'd be useful to have a standard `%eyre` endpoint for dereferencing the
Urbit namespace. In other words, the equivalent of `.^` or `:wish` twigs, which
send path-based requests to either `++scry` for vanes or `++peek` for apps.

And since it's just an HTTP request, it could event block and wait for
`++peer-scry`dereferences as well, subject to the overall request timeout.

### clay

Would the /raw `%clay` endpoint return simply Apache-style listings for directory
nodes, or is that more likely to be a separate renderer?

Also, is /on simply a notification that a clay node has been updated?

### gall

Finally, should the `%gall` endpoints use the `%gall` move/arm names?

I assume that `POST /send` is `%poke`, `PUT /subscriptions` is `%peer`, and
`DELETE /subscriptions` is `%pull`.

And `/events` is a multiplex of `%coup`, `%reap`, `%quit`, and `%diff`?

----

P.S. Any interest in WebSockets?