## `~batteb-watwel-ranbur-padsul--tolnut-padrec-dozdev-samzod`
Essentially urbit provides:
- Global name resolution
- Encryption 

I think like it roughly falls into two cases :

- one to many: content producer want to efficiently deliver immutable content ( think a planet is hosting magazine for 1 000 000 readers). 

- many to many : a lot of content creators. This covers the case in question. Essentially, we should be able to slightly disempower dht topology. 

One solution for both cases which comes to mind (I am dreaming it up, no research). 

Adaptive topology: network detects the character of the medium and adapts itself. In the case of a magazine , movie streaming what not, urbit detects it is a pure consumer of content which flows from a handful of nodes and starts acting as a relay for other participants. 

Case of talk: urbit knows it is producing a lot of content that needs to be delivered over the network to many more participants. Moreover the content changes frequently. I side with palfun on this, dht like broadcast would probably be an overkill and inefficient. Peer discovery in DHT networks is slow (see torrents start up time).  In such a case Urbit needs to be smart in structing network flow and send it to nodes eg closest to him.

I imagine an interpolating network  topology between a dht like case (everyone connected to everyone) and almost chain like topology (I.e one urbit connected to only one other urbit).

Moreover this should happen automatically. We could at the same time mantain a dht like record, but use it in a smart way according to the changing character of medium. There could be different types of topology like palfun wants, but there would be no choice by the user necessary. Also this should be by some not so elaborate algorithm, hopefully without the need for machine learning. Some simple statistics about the nature of connection would be gathered and decisions made accordingly.

Disclaimer: no idea if feasible. It is best to just try to do something similar. First just implement dht them try to make it smarter.

~ponmep-litsem
