---
type: post
date: ~2018.6.7..05.02.16..0d29
title: Unums for Urbit?
author: ~batseg-soldyr-tolheb-nocmyl--fitwyt-ponber-binwyd-dopzod
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

(I tried posting this and it hung, probably due to the Unicode I tried before)

Here's someone else rethinking the fundamentals of computing, specifically representation and calculation of numbers using set theory.

IEEE-754 floats seem kind of kludgy compared to the underpinnings of Urbit, Unums seem to match Urbit's philosophy better.

http://www.johngustafson.net/unums.html
Blurb for his book:
"Written by one of the foremost experts in high-performance computing and the inventor of Gustafson's Law, The End of Error: Unum Computing explains a new approach to computer arithmetic: the universal number (unum). The unum encompasses all IEEE floating-point formats as well as fixed-point and exact integer arithmetic. This new number type obtains more accurate answers than floating-point arithmetic yet uses fewer bits in many cases, saving memory, bandwidth, energy, and power."

I tried putting in a 7-screenful precis of his presentation "A Radical Approach to Computation with Real Numbers", but I'll let you take a look at his page yourself. It's really elegant and adaptable.

Here are some snippets:

Unum goals:
All arithmetic operations equally fast
No penalty for decimal instead of binary
Easy to build using current chip technology
No exceptions (subnormals, NaNs, "negative zero")
One-to-one: no redundant representations
Onto: No real numbers overlooked
Mathematically sound; no rounding errors
But IEEE 754 compatibility prevents all the other goals

*
Break completely from IEEE 754 floats and gain:
Computation with mathematical rigor
Robust set representations with a fixed number of bits
1-clock binary ops with no exception cases
Tractable "exhaustive search" in high dimensions

Sets become numeric quantities:

*"SORNs": Sets Of Real Numbers*
Closed under:x + y, x - y, x × y, x / y and x^y
Tolerates division by 0.
No indeterminate forms.
Very different from symbolic ways of dealing with sets.

Sets become numeric quantities:
[the simplest unums with 8 bits and no quantities other than 0 and infinity can represent and calculate with the following intervals:]
The empty set, { }
All positive reals (0, inf)
Zero, 0
All nonnegative reals, [0, inf)
All negative reals, (-inf, 0)
All nonzero reals, (-inf, 0) union (0, inf)
All nonpositive reals, (-inf, 0]
All reals, (-inf, inf)
The point at infinity, +/-inf
The extended positive reals, (0, inf]
The unsigned values, 0 union +/-inf
The extended nonnegative reals, [0, inf]
The extended negative reals, [-inf, 0)
All nonzero extended reals [-inf, 0) union ( 0, inf]
The extended nonpositive reals, [-inf, 0]
All extended reals, [-inf, inf]

[Using these to represent a 12-D kinematic robot arm problem, can calculate the constraints in a few ns]
Divide by 0 mid-calculation and still get the right answer

Intervals: Each step starts from the interval produced in the previous
step.
-> Bounds grow exponentially

Unums: Each stage of a calculation starts with values that are either
exact or one ULP wide, and then takes the union of the results.
-> Bounds grow linearly.
