---
type: post
date: ~2017.5.22..22.40.34..234b
title: Inheriting your urbit
author: ~sorreg-namtyv
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

From [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/urbit/comments/6c9hn1/urbit_and_inheritance_what_happens_when_the/):

> Urbit's scarcity has some interesting implications for the inheritance of its digital property.
>
> Presumably, stars and galaxies are so valuable that their owners will, as with real estate, establish their own inheritance procedures, but what if they die before they have? Vast swathes of infrastructure will rot if not redistributed. Who will have the power to dispossess the deceased? Incidentally, could this power extend to dispossessing irresponsible and negligent owners?
>
> And what about planets? Theoretically, there are enough planets for four billion people, though I expect many users will want to purchase at least two for their public and anonymous identities. Four billion may be sufficient for the number of potential users that currently exist, but is it sustainable given population renewal? As Urbiters (is that the correct denonym?) age, the owners of planets will die, leaving a lot of address space occupied by the dead, not freed up to meet new demand. This problem could be avoided if stars could requisition inactive planets, but apparently they aren't allowed to in order to limit their power (a limitation that may be unnecessary, as no planet would trust a star known to abuse this power).
>
> Thoughts? I'd like to know how the creators see these issues playing out.

Reply:

Ha, that's an excellent question!

Dollars do not usually rot in the hands of the dead.  Nor do stocks and bonds.  But houses are the best example.  

Something not to forget about a personal server: a personal server, if you're part of a nuclear family, should be a *family* server.  Not only does this provide something of an answer to the 4-billion question (the right number might not be a headcount, but something more like the number of income tax returns filed; and don't forget that moons will be made into whatever they need to be; a world that needs independent moons will figure it out), it suggests a model for inheritance.

These days it's rare for houses to be passed down through generations -- not just deeded as assets, but actually lived in.  But now it's normal.  Ships could be deeded as assets, or actually inhabited continuously by a single family.

Is it weird that someone else, who is now dead, used to live in your ship?  I don't know, is it weird for a house?  Is it less weird if that person is related to you?

Houellebecq wrote about inheritance in _The Elementary Particles_:

> Children existed solely to inherit a man’s trade, his moral code and his property. This was taken for granted among the aristocracy, but merchants, craftsmen and peasants also bought into the idea, so it became the norm at every level of society. That’s all gone now: I work for someone else, I rent my apartment from someone else, there’s nothing for my son to inherit. I have no craft to teach him, I haven’t a clue what he might do when he’s older. By the time he grows up, the rules I lived by will have no value—he will live in another universe. If a man accepts the fact that everything must change, then he accepts that life is reduced to nothing more than the sum of his own experience; past and future generations mean nothing to him. That’s how we live now. For a man to bring a child into the world now is meaningless.  [source](https://blogs.harvard.edu/philg/2017/01/08/if-the-dark/)

Assuming the conditions Houellebecq describes are permanent, inheriting Urbit ships and other durable digital goods will work just like inheriting other assets.  But they may not be permanent.
