---
type: post
date: ~2017.9.2..07.52.22..56ec
title: Urbit Et Orbi - A new blog on urbit
author: ~minful-sicdur-sansun-pitped--ralsyp-tiltud-dozrev-samzod
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Fellow urbiters,

I made a blog, available at http://urbitetorbi.org 
The main idea is to provide comprehensive education about urbit and how it fits into the grander scheme of things, as well as facilitate relatively painless transition into a full fledged hoon wizards [btw, I am not one of them as yet :_) ] for people who have never heard of it (I know it sounds ambitious).

There is not really any new content yet, except wellcome post and "teaser" terminal screencast.
Basically, my plan for now is to:
1. Do a general introduction to urbit, how it fits into the coming tide of decentralization etc.
2. Then "Hoon, from zod to hero" series, with painless introduction to hoon withouth assuming anything (even that the user has ever programmed before). Need ideas how to ease the shock of runes. I was thinking about
preparing graphical interpretation of runes, similar to how some people teach kids chinese characters.
(For example, for sen lin, you draw a bunch of trees etc.)
3. Then a series discussing urbit whitepaper in depth, but with 50% of content 
easy to understand for non-tech savvy users. We have seen it is important to provide users 
with high-level understanding of how things works in bitcoin. Huge swathes of people are not able 
to reason about anything in bitcoin, sometimes resulting in huge financial losses. (Uploading all my bitcoins to this shiny 3rd party, amiright??).
4. Then back to "Honing hoon" series, where we become hoon wizards.

Any comments, ideas, about blog or the above plan welcome. 
Blog is not very pretty at the moment, I promise it will get better :-)

All the best from urbit frontier in Southeastern Asia

~ponmep-listem
