---
type: post
date: ~2017.3.18..03.24.15..d6cd
title: Web apps update, or We need to improve %gall/%eyre for Urbitwitter to work
author: ~tonret-sigsur
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

At the request of `~sorreg`, the Creator, here's an update on my latest adventures with writing stuff and breaking things.

This last week or so I've been working on Part 1 of a new tutorial series where we want to try and highlight how easy we think the Urbit stack makes it is to build the kinds of cool apps we've all loved and used on the modern Internet. But it's safe to say that the Newbie Strugs™ have been real.

It'll probably be a little while before we can natively support image/video media so we can secure the existence of our .gifs, memes and snaps. But if there's one thing that Urbit today does pretty well already, it's messaging. Namely, broadcasting encrypted, typed, exactly-once-delivered messages to arbitrarily complex audiences, and subscribing your ship to different feeds of messages. 

In the near future, we think one great messaging use case is connecting your existing web services to Urbit through APIs. This is definitely a promising and exciting feature that will play a key part in Urbit getting mainstream adoption given the Internet's established network effects.

But what's most exciting to me is the possibility for new communities and subcultures to be built on Urbit itself -- a new Web. This seems to be the most powerful force driving this project at the app level, while we continue to build out Urbit's core infrastructure at the systems level. It's been so awesome to see this start to happen already on `:talk`. The more great communities and experiences we can have like `:talk`, the more people will start to tell their (mostly technical) friends about Urbit (for now). The more happy users on the network, the more fun it makes it for us and future Urbit contributors to help build the Virtual City. 

It turns out that by far the best way to build Urbit messaging apps right now is to, in fact, just use `:talk`. Most of us have come to know `:talk` as this app that we can use from both the command line and the browser. But `:talk` was actually designed to be a general-purpose piece of infrastructure, a protocol for messaging and notifications that `:talk`-the-app just happens to use. Meaning, we can actually use the `:talk` protocol as a basic data store and message bus to power any kind of messaging app with any UI.

As an example, I've been working on a sort of GNU-Social-like Twitter clone for Urbit. The core idea of a basic Urbitwitter V1 (I'm currently taking name suggestions!) is to, obviously, use ships as handles, allow ships to broadcast public posts, and then make it easy for ships to aggregate and organize subscriptions to other ships' public stations from both the CLI and the browser. This *literally is* what `:talk` does. But despite how the backend functionality would basically be identical to how we all currently use `:talk`-the-app now, you could totally imagine Urbitwitter having a completely different experience as a web UI or command-line app of its own that supported profiles, hashtags, retweets, and of course, dank memes.

In short, it will be stuff like this that will really show why so much work has gone into Urbit in the first place. So, as amazing as the contributions have been at the systems level, it's also the perfect time for anyone excited about all this to ask how to get involved at the app level. In particular, %gall and %eyre need some improvements for things like this to be possible soon. 

In the ideal Urbit user experience, a user's ship does all their work for them by pulling data from the network over `%ames`. I.e., an Urbit user should never have to "go" anywhere like they do jumping around URLs on the modern Internet; their ship should fetch the stuff they want and serve it to them directly.

Of course, this is the essence of `%clay` as a global, referentially transparent namespace. From the web, `myship.urbit.org/~~/~your-ship/home=/web/some-cool-files` serves your cool files to me directly from my ship, which fetches them for me. `%gall` functionality for fetching `:talk` data the same way isn't working right now, but it looks like [we're close to getting it working](https://github.com/urbit/arvo/blob/maint-20160818/arvo/gall.hoon#L235-L264). Basically, ships need to be able to pass around `:talk` data to each other easily.

For example, in addition to the normal main `%mailbox` station every ship boots with (your `%porch`, if you're a planet or comets), every ship additionally by default boots with a `%public` station, which is a `%journal`. Whereas your porch is publicly writable, privately readable, journals are the opposite: publicly readable, privately writable, for curated content. Since my `%public` station is, well, public, you should just be able to fetch the messages from it and check them out without subscribing to it. But as of now, you're forced to subscribe your %porch to my %public station in order to see them. Which is a bad UX for you if you find out you don't like my memes. :/

So, it seems to me the fix is to simply extend `%eyre` a bit along with our `urb.js` redesign in the coming web updates, whereby an authenticated ship could make a call for some other ship's `%gall` data via passing in a second-ship parameter. The rest of the command should be the same as if I was sending the command to my own ship, but my ship just acts as a proxy to get the other ship's data and serve it back to me in my app.

We'd love outside contributions on this. `~pittyp`, the Great confirmed that these fixes aren't super hard, and could definitely serve as solid beginning fixes for the uninitiated looking to get their hands dirty. If I'm not mistaken, [a new contest has started](http://urbit.org/fora/posts/~2017.3.17..22.57.56..4feb~/)! And the clock is ticking. ;) (for six months)

Without a doubt though, the most Urbit points right now would *by far* go to the person who can come up with the coolest name for this Twitter thing. About the only ones I've been able to come up with are `feed` and `tell`. But perhaps now is the time to take the bold action to move on from four-letter app names, once and for all. We're running out of Scrabble words. Now is the time to inscribe yourself in Urbit history -- carpe diem!

Thanks all.