---
type: post
date: ~2017.9.7..23.20.06..dc47
title: A package manager / install automation for Urbit
author: ~rophex-hashes
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Using an app on urbit usually means:
* downloading (or writing) a bunch of files
* mounting a desk to unix
* copying the files into specific places in the desk (app/sur/mar etc)
* starting the app

Syncing the code from another ship is a better method, but someone still needs to install the first copy on that ship your syncing from, so the problem still exists.

If you are developing an app, you're probably copying these files every time you make a change (because hosting a git repo in urbit is insanity!).

Additionally, right now apps are not very abundant, and probably monolithic/self contained. But it makes sense to promote sharing of useful code/libraries between apps/people, which complicates distribution and management of the different pieces required to make an app work.

I started writing a stateless installation automation tool, which turned out to be a stateful package manager.  
It's still simplistic (no package versioning) but it can install/uninstall packages and their dependencies.

It can fetch files from any websever so you can install a package from github, or you can run a local webserver for your local dev files. Maybe in the future it will update automatically when they change.

I wrote this because it's very useful for me, but I'd be happy if anyone else found it useful.
As always comments and criticism is welcome.

See source and package spec format [here](https://github.com/asssaf/urbit-package).
