---
type: post
date: ~2018.7.2..15.16.21..796c
title: urbit’s governance system
author: ~forpen-forluc
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

# past
It’s been a while since I started my research on governance in the fields of blockchain and other decentralized systems and — due to my passionate interest in urbit itself — it was only a matter of time until I read, and re-read, and really appreciated the ideas that urbit is thinking about in regards of their governance system. reference: https://urbit.org/posts/constitution/

The general — historically inspired — concept of splitting the government into executive and legislative entities is — in my honest and humble opionion — very valuable when it comes to organizing decentralized agents in the realms of deterministic consensus mechanisms.

I’ll try to re-cap urbit’s governance ideas, please correct me if something was understood in a wrong way.

# present
urbit’s current/interim constitution describes *four entities governing the republic* …

The *planetary assembly*, consisting of active primary planets — one active primary planet representing one unique user equaling one vote — is responsible for technical governance. Technical decisions, therefore, are in the minds and hands of active users.

The *stellar congress*, consisting of active independent stars — one active independent star representing the consensus of their planets — is responsible for internal, non-technical governance, meaning project and community management.

The *galactic senate*, consisting of active discrete galaxies — one active discrete galaxy representing the consensus of their stars — is responsible for selecting the consuls and holding them accountable, as well as complying with external powers.

The *executive consulate*, consisting of two senate-elected consuls — the first consul elected by the plurality of votes in the senate, the second by the plurality of votes who did not(!) vote for the first consul — is responsible for validating newly created galaxies, gradually activating new galaxies, and setting up their urbit.org subdomain, as well as DNS routing.

# future
urbit’s next constitution — probably a smart contract on the Ethereum blockchain — will be *proposed* by the stellar congress, and *approved* by the galactic senate.

This parliemantary system — which is, in fact, distributing governmental power towards those entities who are probably the most interested and affected by the decisions being voted for — can have huge advantages compared to other governance system like (delegated) proof of stake.

I’d be happy about discussing several concepts of governance, their advantages and disadvantages, and how to establish them from a technical perspective, as well as from a user facing side.

Thanks to all of you in advance.