---
type: post
date: ~2017.10.14..02.57.01..e5fa
title: Some new ideas for the docs front page
author: ~tonlur-sarret
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I've been making a few additions to the docs front page over the last week or so. I'm hosting this latest "developer" version of the docs on my ship. I'd love for you all to check them out and offer some feedback in the comments below. Even better, submit a pull request for a new idea to the _developer_ branch of our Urbit docs repo.

Here are the links:

- [**Developer docs**](http://104.198.191.71:8081/developer)
- [**Developer repo**](https://github.com/urbit/docs/tree/developer)

I've been wanting to make the docs front page feel more like an "Urbit home". That is, not only have the docs be the source of technical learning material and installation/setup/usage guides for Urbit, but also have the docs be the home for all things happening in the Urbit community on a weekly basis. These changes aren't deployed yet to urbit.org, and not all of what I want to do has been added (or completed; _some of the doc paths at the above test page link to placeholder files_). But in general, this current template of sorts maps what is low-hanging fruit which can be completed and deployed in the next few days.

In general, we think it's really important that people know what's going on. It's something we haven't done a great job of doing so far, but we think this is a step in the right direction. There should be an easy place to go to see what's happening that has slightly more structure than Fora.

We want to start doing a _This Week in Urbit_ update, in the spirit of [This Week in Rust](https://this-week-in-rust.org/), to help people know what's going on and give shoutouts to contributors. These should definitely be the first links people coming to the Docs should see; often the first question a new technical visitor has when coming to a new project for the first time is, "Is this thing even active?" Right now it's sort of hard to tell unless you were in-the-know of `cc-release` and our current Github workflow, or were already on Talk and Fora.

Additionally, soon we'll launch _Urbit Proposals_, our attempt to organize the things being worked on, or things we want to be worked on, in the kernel, userspace and documentation/examples and make that progress public. It'll also be a way for anybody with an idea to post something and get comments, like the original concept of the [RFC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Request_for_Comments).

We'll get these first drafts of these TWIUs and UPs into the docs over the weekend. So, for now, I'm hosting on my ship the following additions:

- Switch from Urbit docs to Urbit developer
- Added a This Week in Urbit section which will list weekly update posts of Urbit's progress and community activity
- Added an Urbit Proposals section which will highlight the heavy active development going on in the project and lay out in specific terms how and where people can contribute
- Added a Community "Media" section for all community videos, podcasts, talks and articles
- Updated the Community Projects section to show what people have been doing for the past few months
- Split the technical material into a "Using" and "Documentation" section to make it easier for both non-technical and technical new users to get started
- Split the "C runtime system" doc into its own Vere section to try and make a clearer path for people wanting to contribute to the interpreter; this section will get expanded out more over time
- Simplified the docs directory structure and general docs layout, i.e. made the docs page a bit less dependent on Tree which will get overhauled soon

Let us know your ideas about how we can best bootstrap the Urbit developer community.
