---
type: post
date: ~2017.8.14..00.54.52..f06a
title: Block.io integration: digital tips for fun and profit
author: ~palfun-foslup
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---


Those of you who were at the meetup yesterday, or even just hanging in meta, have seen something really cool in action: cryptocurrency transactions being made using Urbit. How can you get in on this? How does it work? Let's dive in!

## Wallet as a service as a service

Before you get your hopes up: no, this isn't done by running an actual crypto wallet on an Urbit. Instead, we make use of the "wallet as a service" of [block.io](https://block.io/). As with any wallet that isn't *actually* yours, you probably don't want to put too much of value in there. Especially if you're going to hook that up on your Urbit, as I'll outline below.

## Setting up

To get set up, you need a few things.

1. Create an account on [block.io](https://block.io). Optionally put some coins in there.
2. Make sure [this change](https://github.com/urbit/arvo/pull/416/files) has made it onto your ship. This allows you to use capitals in your `web.plan` usernames, necessary for representing cryptocurrency addresses. (This may or may not have gotten pushed out over the network already. Comets that existed before this post will have to manually put it in.)
3. Checkout or download [all the files](https://github.com/Fang-/blockio) for this, and put them into your ship's home desk. (In the future, I can probably set things up so that you can `|sync %home ~palfun-foslup %blockio` or something.)
4. `|start %blockio`. You can now ctrl-x to and from in, just like talk and dojo.
5. Select the coin you want to work with by doing `coin doge` or similar. Enter your API key for the current coin by entering `key xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx`. If you want to make transactions, also put in your block.io pin. `pin your-secret`.
6. To set a receiving address for the current coin, `address ...` will append it to your `web.plan`.

(Note that if all you want to do is receive tips without sending them, like some greedy shibe, having the updated `mar/plan.hoon` and manually putting in your address into your `web.plan` is sufficient. (Format `DOGE: [address]` on a single line.))

## Functionality

* Get help with `help`. Described all of the below.
* Switch between coins with `coin [currency]`.
* Get balance for the current coin with `balance`.
* Make transfers with `transfer [address] [amount]`. Address can be either a crypto address or a ship name.
* To enable talk listening, type `talk y`. The app will make transfers whenever you type `!tip [~ship_name] [amount] [currency]` into talk, as long as that message gets echoed back to you. Note that comet shortnames (with the underscore) are also supported, assuming that comet has sent a message since the block.io app has started watching talk.

Note that when making transfers to shipnames, you'll see a bunch of `%camping` printfs scroll by. These are from ford, indicating it's waiting on the `web.plan` from the foreign ship to be retrieved.

## On the code

The code for this project isn't the greatest. I only did a single refactoring halfway through because it was necessary for putting in desired functionality. Everything's been kinda hastily hacked together in order to make it in time for the meetup last Friday. Nevertheless, it works pretty well!

The app stores API keys and pin in `sec/io/block.atom`, properly encrypted. Whenever requests to block.io are made, the `api_key` parameter in the URL is set to the currently selected coin. The security driver in `sec/io/block.atom` searches through the query parameters. If it finds `api_key`, it replaces its value with the appropriate key. If it finds `pin`, it sets its value to your block.io pin.

Pending transactions are kept track of and can time out. You'll be informed of this. Talk messages are tracked, so it never reacts to the same message twice.

The file stuff the app does is partially ripped from a `lib` file, and partially pulled out of thin air. This really should all just go into a slightly more general purpose `lib`. I found `lib/write.hoon` to be difficult to use for some reason.

Pretty much all arms are commented with short descriptions, and there's a few comments here and there. I've mostly been too hasty to be very thorough with them though.

## Intentions

Of course Urbit isn't ready yet to hold the keys to your high-value transactions. Hell, you probably don't want to make those from a wallet you don't own. But! Dogecoin isn't worth much at all, and it makes for a nice example that says "hey, we can actually do this on our platform!"

It'd be cool if we could get people tipping each other a handful of dogecoin every now and then for contributions they make, even if that's just a really awful joke.

Though it's certainly possible to append a "value in USD" to the transactions, I'll leave that be for now. Why drown out the pleasure of seeing big numbers?

I'll be around to answer questions and help with issues. My responses may not be the swiftest right now, but I'll try to get back to you.

Now go out there, share that moolah, and `!tip ~palfun-foslup 50 btc`! (^: