---
type: post
date: ~2016.12.21..21.54.21..cfd1
title: Introduction to parsing (in Hoon)
author: ~palfun-foslup
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Having no real experience with parsers, I'm about to write the introductory piece you find below. It's going to be rough around the edges, and probably other places too. I'm learning this as I write. You have been warned.  
*Special thanks to `~pittyp-datfyn` for kickstarting my adventure, and everyone who answered my questions in urbit-meta.*

**Be sure to check the comments for any corrections.** Though this mostly just throws around examples in a semi-structured fashion, so we should be good.

### Plain parsin'

"*A parser is a software component that takes input data (frequently text) and builds a data structure*"  

Firstly, how do we use parsers? There's a handful of standard library functions (stdlib section [4g](http://urbit.org/docs/hoon/library/4g/)) that can parse things using so-called `rule`s (parsing rules), nice and simple.  
In our examples, we'll be using `scan`, which takes a `tape` (Hoon string, list of characters, `"hello"`) and a `rule`, and tries to parse that string with the rule. If it succeeds, it produces the parse output. If it can't parse everything, it crashes with a stack trace. Useful! Let's see it in action:

```
> (scan "hello" (jest 'hello'))
'hello'
> (scan "hello zod" (jest 'hello'))
{1 6}
'syntax-error'
```
(All examples here are run from dojo. Try them out yourself!)

In real world use you should probably use `rust` or similar instead, which return a `unit` of the result. In these examples, we'll stick with `scan` for the added clarity.

### Parsing rules!

That `jest` function we used above is one of the many that can create parsing rules for us. (stdlib section [4f](http://urbit.org/docs/hoon/library/4f/)) `jest` in particular matches against a cord (Hoon string, `@t`, ``'hello'``). Anything more or less than the cord will fail to parse.

If you just want to match a single character instead of a string, use `just`.  
For matching something surrounded by specific strings, there's `ifix`, a "parser modifier". It takes a pair of rules for the left- and right-hand side of your string, and then another rule to parse the string in between those two sides.  
Let's see an example that uses both of those!

```
> (scan "<a>" (ifix [gal gar] (just 'a')))
'a'
> (scan "<a>" (ifix [gal hep] (just 'a')))
{1 3}
'syntax-error'
```

So apparently `gal` and friends are parser rules too? (stdlib section [4h](http://urbit.org/docs/hoon/library/4h/)) You may remember them from the official Hoon [ASCII pronounceables](http://urbit.org/docs/hoon/syntax/#-glyphs-and-characters). They're shorthand for `(just 'char')`, where char is the related ASCII character. Convenient!

We may want more sophisticated output than just (a part of) our string though. We can do a bunch of useful things, like add a tag to our parse output with `stag` or even slam it through a gate ("call" a "function" with it).

```
> (scan "you" (stag %it (jest 'you')))
[%it 'you']
> (scan "raw" (cook |=(@ "cooked") (jest 'raw')))
"cooked"
```

As you can imagine, there's already a lot you can do with that. But maybe we want to parse multiple parts of a string individually?

### With our parsers combined

"*A parser combinator is a higher-order function that accepts several parsers as input and returns a new parser as its output*"  
Obviously, more parsers > less parsers, so combinators are really strong!

To combine parsers (chain them together), we use the `;~` rune along with a parsing composer function (stdlib section [4e](http://urbit.org/docs/hoon/library/4e/)) and a list of parsers.  
For example, there's `plug`, which keeps track of the individual results of each parsing rule.

```
> (scan "starship" ;~(plug (jest 'star') (jest 'ship')))
['star' 'ship']
```

Other examples are `pose`, which tries every rule you give it until it finds one that works, and `glue`, which parses a delimiter in between each rule.

```
> (scan "a" ;~(pose (just 'a') (just 'b')))
'a'
> (scan "b" ;~(pose (just 'a') (just 'b')))
'b'
> (scan "a,b" ;~((glue com) (just 'a') (just 'b')))
['a' 'b']
> (scan "a,b,a" ;~((glue com) (just 'a') (just 'b')))
{1 4}
'syntax-error'
```

### Exercise

Now that we know roughly how parsers work, we can try and decode existing parsers in Hoon's standard library. Put [the docs for `poja`](https://urbit.org/docs/hoon/library/zuse/core/poja), the JSON parser, next to the [JSON state machine images](http://www.json.org/). Look through the functions' source code and see if you can make out what the parsers are doing. Keep the parser-related documentation handy!

That'll probably have you poking around in the parser-related documentation for a bit. That's definitely a good thing: there's a lot of functionality available, you just have to know about it.

### Further work (aka comments on docs)

Better docs so figuring this out and discovering all the stdlib functions isn't such a pain. (^:  
Seriously though, I'd love a page that lists all parser-related functions and sorts them by category, with a simple example for each category. Or at least an easier "at a glance" distinction between parsers, generators and combinators. That felt a bit blurry while I had all five related docs pages open, even though I'm fairly sure they are section-separated?

Did I mention yet how bleh the docs are, styling-wise? I can barely fit an entire function's description on my ~820px high full-screen browser window, which makes things feel very... tight? I don't always need the source (which isn't automagically in sync with live, aaa), and I feel there's a lot of whitespace that can be used to compact the docs without sacrificing readability.

At least all the info *is* there, which is good! It's just hidden behind poor sidebar titles and "help I don't know the terminology for what I'm looking for", I guess.

I want to restructure and tidy this up and expand it to make a more complete guide to Hoon's built-in parsing functionality, so feedback on this (admittedly chaotic) intro would be appreciated.