---
type: post
date: ~2017.5.24..00.40.22..99b3
title: Getting side effects from talk
author: ~nisbud-sivnep-tamwen-tarsec--dondyn-bilred-dozdux-binzod
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Pondering the possibilities and problems in making urbit a replacement for github for its own development, it occurred to me that it might be valuable to have the ability to generate side-effects from talk commands. For instance, you could activate a line number corresponding to a pull request message to merge in a foreign desk. 

More generally, suppose you had the ability to make fully general "proposals", which are basically code packaged in a talk message (not like the current sandboxed # option, which from what i understand only runs on the sender's ship) that you send out and that presents the receiver with a simple yes or no question, i.e. to run it on their own ship or not. Then on top of that, possibly have community defined subsets like pull requests as marks.

This is above my head to implement at this point (forgive me for talking about things above my chops ;)), so I'm posting this to solicit criticism and comments from people more versed in these systems than me. Some questions I have that hopefully someone can answer: 
- is this possible in the first place?
- is it desirable, does it cause security issues, or flawed in some other way?
- would it involve modifying talk or could it be done as a separate app?
- would it make more design sense to be a part of talk or a separate app?

Just thinking out loud now, ~dorlun said something about how he imagines talk as a meta stream, which seems to imply something like a closer coupling between dojo and talk. This idea could probably work as a dojo generator if its possible to access talk stream data from there, and it makes sense with the way output is multiplexed, but iirc there are plans in the works to get rid of line-by-line multiplexing in favor of a more tmux-style experience, no?

Thoughts, comments, critcisms, all appreciated