---
type: post
date: ~2017.5.24..23.42.17..580a
title: Welcome!
author: ~sorreg-namtyv
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Dear star buyers, welcome to the Urbit test network and the ever-glorious congress of stars!  An enormous round of thanks to everyone who took part in the fixed-price sale.

## Results

We sold 1020 stars at $512 each to 789 (seemingly) separate buyers in 8 hours.  Our goal with this sale was to sell to as many well-informed customers as possible.  Token sales these days are often sold out before they even get going, and the buyers don't always seem super clear on what they're paying for.  If this didn't scare us, we'd be idiots.

Since the quality of a network can only decline, one leading indicator for a network's potential size is its current quality.  Urbit is certainly designed to be able to scale up, technically, economically and socially, to serve the whole world -- but not right away!  First, we have to build a strong foundation -- technically, economically, and socially.  Getting a critical mass of people who think for themselves is a great start.

## Star delivery and the maintenance network

In case you were too excited to read the sale page, we promised to deliver testnet stars within a month.  (Bear in mind that until live keys or tokens are issued, you don't yet have a true crypto-asset, just a customer relationship with Urbit's corporate sponsor Tlon.)

In theory, delivering the new stars doesn't involve much work -- we just spin up four new galaxies.  In practice, we actually have a bunch of work ahead of us.  This testnet will be operating for at least three months, if not six.  We want to do just a little bit of work, to make it a lot more stable.

To remind anyone reading about our current engineering status, we have a fairly deep fork between the current testnet (`maint-0.4` and `maint-2016018` on [urbit/urbit](https://github.com/urbit/urbit) and [urbit/arvo](https://github.com/urbit/arvo) respectively), and the development or branch (`master` on both).

The `master` branch of Urbit, aka `cc-release`, has most of Arvo and the Unix infrastructure rewritten, and is currently being tested.

## Imminent heat death of the testnet

Anyone who has tried to use the current testnet will notice that it's slower than a snail on sandpaper and takes hours to create a comet.  This is actually a perfect storm -- even before the sale, `~zod` was redlining.  And, worse, the problem is unfixable.

What happened?  There are a number of persistent problems on the maintenance testnet (somewhat misnamed, because we've been pretty much ignoring it while we build the next revision).

But the killer is that (a) comets don't self-update, and (b) all comets report to `~zod`.  It is difficult to understand how these decisions were motivated.  But there they are.

This produces a lot of traffic to `~zod`, because the Urbit network treats death/disconnection (correctly) as the limit case of congestion.  If a ship is not talking back, we just back way off.  For values of "way off" that include... 2 minutes?

This maximum warmup time has been raised to `~m15` in a new patch.  But comets don't self-update.  And every packet to a dead comet goes through `~zod`, because its IP cache times out after `~m2`.  In short: the testnet is DDOSing itself to death.

It's a testnet for a reason!  But the bad news is that we'll have to administratively reboot the universe (a "continuity breach", see below).

The good news is that the testnet has been getting a lot more stable.  Even as late as 2015, we would sometimes breach four or five times a month.  But this Urbit has been alive for nine months, since we delivered the last sale's stars.

## Glorious rebirth of the testnet

Fixing any one of several issues would mitigate the DDOS.  Or we could try to pull off some kind of (wholly undeserved, since the quality of content from comets hasn't yet slipped below content from planets) great comet massacre.

On the other hand, a lot of people are operating out of comets because their planets sank.  One thing we've learned from the testnet is that losing your name is incredibly traumatic and dissociating, and really damages your Urbit experience.

And there are a lot of small issues that we think we can fix in a true maintenance release, with a clean little "continuity breach."  So we'll be doing that, sometime in the next month.  The goal is to build a testnet where ships almost never sink.

For instance, the whole "one-way connectivity" problem (the cause of most "sinking") is already fixed on a dev branch.  We'll also look at moving the new event infrastructure back to the old Arvo -- no promises here.  This "remaintenance" release will not make Urbit perfect, but it'll make it more fun to play with.

## Continuity for beginners

At the user level, a "continuity breach" just means you throw away your star/planet and recreate it from the initial ticket.  Remove any valuable data first, of course.  And we rotate the network protocol code so that all old packets are ignored.

At the system level...

Urbit has the notion of "continuity," alien to traditional networks, because Urbit assumes a computer is a single-level store that lives forever.  Traditional networks assume a computer is a dual-level store (memory and disk) which, while operating normally, can forget half its brain.  (Of course, Urbit just uses a transaction layer to simulate a single-level store, but we can easily imagine it running on hardware persistent memory.)

So Urbit takes advantage of the assertion that once a computer says something, it can remember that forever.  This simply isn't true on a traditional network, where acknowledging a message only means it's stored in volatile RAM.

If you are allowed to couple state across nodes, you can provide all kinds of fundamental features that a conventional network can't -- like exactly-once messaging.  On the other hand, if one of these nodes does suffer brain damage, its ability to communicate may be repaired.

In a local continuity breach, only the brain-damaged node suffers.  But when our update mechanism fails (or isn't turned on!), or when there are enough local breaches between stars and galaxies, it can be easiest to reboot the whole universe.

Again, the last breach was in August 2016.  Since then, `~zod` has processed 350 million events, weighing 200GB.  We'll do one more breach for the star launch, then run a "cc-release" testnet for a while, then launch the real keys.