---
type: post
date: ~2017.2.10..07.20.41..fdda
title: Seal of Approval
author: ~hoctyl-barpub
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

This is an extension of a conversation on :talk with [~maldeb-hapben](maldeb-hapben.urbit.org). Originally it was about clay, but I think the topic is more general.

There is a revision system out in the wild called [v](http://www.loper-os.org/?p=1545). It defines source code, or other data under version control, as a function of patches *and their authorship*, as sealed. Being a product of the Most Serene Republic, it is Spartan, manual, and instructive to Urbit's aspirations. 

Forget version control for a second, let's just talk about comments. This post is by `hoctyl-barpub`. How does the star hosting urbit's fora know that? I'm logged in through my planet. I'm sure that system will get more sophisticated but that's the basics of it. 

How do you, the reader, know that I posted this? How do you know that someone from Tlon didn't maliciously edit my words and represent them falsely as my own? Not that they'd do that, they're good people. But how do you know?

Right now you don't. But this can be added. The forum software is a nice nucleus for one of the first things urbit can really get right: with a few tweaks, planets should be able to host their own blog, with a common platform for comments based around the urbit identity scheme. To a reader, that looks like a blog with comments, to a commenter, it looks... like a blog with comments, plus you have to be logged into an urbit. Which is just about as easy as being logged into any other server. 

Under the hood, here's what that should look like. The blog post is already an immutable document, composed of the patches the author applied to create it, all sealed by clay as a matter of course with the seal of the author. My urbit requests that revision, and seal it. I compose the comment, which is a patch on that document which, if applied, updates it to have my comment.

I send that patch to my urbit, which attaches the URI of the original document, `~hoctyl-barpub`'s seal of the original document, seals the combination, and sends it to the urbit hosting the blog. 

What that artifact says is this: given a certain document, and given a patch which is provably mine, you will have exactly that blog plus my comment. If the blog owner likes my comment, it's published, and includes a 'verify' link in the little hamburger menu. Click that, you get the seal. Given `~hoctyl-barpub`'s public key, you can verify that I was the author of the comment, and which URI I intended it to apply to. Given the contents of that URI, you can verify from my seal that you have the same document I did, at the time I provided the patch. 

These are pretty nice properties to have in a forum. Also nifty for a version control system. I see it as pervasively useful, actually. Right down to the core urbit technology: as it stands, I'm only likely to want to accept over-the-wire updates of my ship that actually come from ~zod, or one of the Tlon stars. 

In future, it would be great if I could just accept any old patch, from any urbit down to the merest comet, as long as it was *sealed* by ~zod. In general, I would find it comfortable, knowing that everything my urbit was running was a collection of patches, each of which had a signature, or a chain of them, originating in the urbit claiming authorship of that patch. 