---
type: post
date: ~2017.3.17..22.57.56..4feb
title: Urbit contribution medals, March 2017 (and going forward)
author: ~sorreg-namtyv
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I'm happy to announce that we've chosen our first three prizewinners for Urbit contributions since last June's crowdsale.

We've simply chosen the three most prolific outside contributors (an easy judgment), ranked them as gold, silver, and bronze (a slightly harder judgment), and are granting them a total of 64 stars.  Gold gets you 32 stars.  Silver or bronze gets you 16 stars.

(Many more people have contributed, of course.  But there's no fourth prize, except our very sincere thanks! This is a contest, not a job. (We're trying to avoid the deadly "overjustification effect.") Also, it's crossed our minds that, considering the current quality of the doc, these are really prizes for "reverse engineering."

**Gold**: `~master-morzod` (aka `~digser_fodlyd`), for numerous small and medium-sized changes, including but not limited to colored text in the console.

**Silver**: `~ponnys-podfer`, for two big contributions -- Urbit's first MUD, and Hoon's first formal documentation in the typesystem.

**Bronze**:  `~palfun-foslup`, for talkbot and other miscellaneous contributions.

Going forward, we'll do this every six months, which puts the next award date in September 2017.  Tlon employees, interns or contractors are not eligible for these prizes.  Nor is anyone else who already has a galaxy.  These prizes logically come from the urbit.org pool -- supporting Urbit development is what it's for.

If you're a "US person" and win a medal, bear in mind that we have to 1099 you for the assumed value of these goods (at the last crowdsale price, ie, $205 per star).   If you decline the stars for this or any other legal or personal reason, it doesn't mean you're not a winner!  urbit.org will keep them and put them to good use.