---
type: post
date: ~2017.8.3..20.53.26..c361
title: Urbit examples
author: ~tonlur-sarret
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I've spent the last week or so working on trying to improve our Urbit examples repository. The code is now both [updated on Github](https://github.com/urbit/examples) and on an Urbit ship (`~dirbet-botweb`). Now you can just merge the desk over the live network to get our examples and docs onto any of your live urbits. Give it a try by following the instructions below.
 
> If you're not on a live urbit, head over to the Github `README` linked above to get Urbit installed and a ship set up.
 
## Installation
 
On your live urbit, run the following one `:dojo` command to merge the `%examples` desk of our new examples ship, `~dirbet-botweb`, and stay synced to repo updates over the air:
 
    ~your-urbit:dojo> |sync %examples ~dirbet-botweb %examples
   
Upon a successful sync (usually about thirty seconds for the full merge to finish), you'll see this output:

    sync succeeded from %examples on ~dirbet-botweb to %examples

Next, set your `:dojo`'s current directory to your new `%examples` desk. Then `|serve` its `web` directory and mount the full desk to Unix. You can do all of that with the following three commands:
 
    ~your-urbit:dojo> =dir /=examples
    ~your-urbit:dojo/examples> |serve %/web
    ~your-urbit:dojo/examples> |mount %
 
If `~your-urbit` was installed at `/urbit/path` on your Unix machine, you can now find your
`%examples` desk with the examples code on it at `/urbit/path/your-urbit/examples`.
 
Each example section has its own `README` page. They're in `/web/examples` of your `%examples` desk now; view the starting page in your browser at:
 
    http://localhost:8443/~~/examples
 
The `/~~/` in the URL will redirect you to `Log In` to your web interface so you can authenticate yourself and run your first examples smoothly.
 
We've found it also helps to have a clone of the docs on hand in case `urbit.org` experiences high traffic, so your new `%examples` desk contains those too. You can view them locally in your browser at:
 
    http://localhost:8443/~~/docs
 
> If you're running multiple ships locally, the port number will be different. Check your `:dojo` output for the correct local port, or view at `https://your-urbit.urbit.org` instead for live ships.
 
The number one goal for this repository is for it to be fun!  People are always around on [`:talk`](https://urbit.org/docs/using/setup#-messaging-talk) and [`:fora`](https://urbit.org/~~/fora). Help each other out, and don't hesitate if you have an idea for a contribution. We'd love to make this both a learning resource and a record of what people in the community are coming up with.
 
## Contributing / Feedback
 
Give us feedback in the comments below after you've played around with these for a little bit. Let us know about your ideas, requests, and/or problems and we'll try and get back to you quickly. Pull requests are more than welcome.
 
<br />
 
Happy hacking!