---
type: post
date: ~2017.6.16..01.22.20..b2ad
title: A successful network reboot!
author: ~tonlur-sarret
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Yesterday's test network reset was a success. The `%ames` network protocol has been bumped to version `6`, and much of the [network's congestion](https://urbit.org/fora/posts/~2017.5.24..23.42.17..580a~/#-imminent-heat-death-of-the-testnet) on `~zod` and our four `urbit.org` stars has been resolved.
 
Upon a network reset, or "[continuity breach](https://urbit.org/docs/using/admin/#-continuity-breaches)", all previously booted ships running the old `%ames` protocol become unable to talk to the new live Urbit network. To get back on the new live network with your same galaxy, star or planet, you'll want to take the following steps to do a fresh boot of your ship again, this time on the new test network:
 
#### 1. Back up your now-outdated ship
 
Your outdated ship can't talk to the live network now, but it will still boot and execute local `:dojo` commands. There are a few `:dojo` commands you'll want to run to make for an easy backup and restoration process for your newly booted ship.
 
The main app state you'll likely want to preserve is your `:talk` state, specifically the messages and metadata of one or multiple of your `:talk` "stories". The simplest way to back up all of your `:talk` data is to save the story data of your primary mailbox station. For planets, this is your `%porch`; stars, your `%floor`; galaxies, your `%court`. When you `;join` a station in `:talk`, by default it's your mailbox that subscribes to that station; so all your `urbit-meta`, `watering-hole` and other station messages including direct messages will be included in this backup.
 
The `:dojo` command to save your mailbox is:
 
```
~tonlur-sarret:dojo> :talk|save %porch
```
 
> Replace `%porch` with `%floor` or `%court` if you're a star or galaxy, of course.
 
Depending on how many `:talk` messages you have in your backlog, this command might spin for a while. But when it finishes, `%clay` will (hopefully) recognize a new file, your primary mailbox's `talk-telegrams` :
 
```
+ /~tonlur-sarret/home/42/talk/porch/talk-telegrams
```
 
You'll want to copy this file via Unix into your new ship upon your fresh boot.
 
In addition, if you've mounted your ship to Unix and copied in any web, Hoon or other files, you'll want to copy these through Unix into your new booted ship as well.
 
If you haven't mounted your home desk at all, you'll need to do that to copy your talk-telegrams.
 
Lastly, if you're going to run your new ship at the same path as your old ship, change the name of your old pier to something like `/.tonlur-sarret.bak/` so that it doesn't conflict with your new pier on boot.
 
Refer to our [setup](https://urbit.org/docs/using/setup/#-filesystem-clay) and [filesystem](https://urbit.org/docs/using/filesystem/) documents if you're confused about any of this.
 
##### 2. Find your original ship ticket in your email inbox
 
When you claimed your original `womb` invite code from Urbit to redeem your ship, you were sent a "ticket" which you inputted as per our [setup document](https://urbit.org/docs/using/setup/#-initialize) to boot for the first time. Now that the network is reset, you'll need this ticket again to boot your new ship once more via the Unix command line.
 
The email should look something like this:
 
```
Your Urbit Invitation
 
Ticket for ~tonlur-sarret: ~sampel-ticlyt-formyr-palnet
```
 
#### 3. Boot your fresh ship once more
 
Once you have your ship's ticket, you can use the same Unix command in our [setup document](https://urbit.org/docs/using/setup/#-initialize), assuming you have [Urbit installed](https://urbit.org/docs/using/install/). Something like:
 
```
$ urbit -w tonlur-sarret -t sampel-ticlyt-formyr-palnet
```
 
Booting should only take about five or so minutes now that `~zod` isn't getting DDOSed to death.
 
#### 4. Restore your `:talk` backup and copy in any files you want
 
First, `|mount %` at the `:dojo` of your fresh ship to mount your home desk to Unix once more.
 
Then, you'll be able to copy via Unix your talk-telegrams and other desired ship files from your old ship backup to your new ship.
 
For your talk-telegrams, this will be something like:
 
```
$ mkdir ~/path/to/tonlur-sarret/home/talk && cp ~/path/to/.tonlur-sarret.bak/home/talk/porch.talk-telegrams ~/path/to/tonlur-sarret/home/talk
```
 
then back in your new ship's `:dojo`:
 
```
~tonlur-sarret:dojo> :talk|load %porch
```
 
and your old `:talk` messages will be restored in your app state in a minute or so.
 
Lastly, use the same copying method described above to get any other files you want into your new ship, such as [web files](https://urbit.org/~~/docs/using/web/#-examples) or [generators](https://mardev.urbit.org/docs/gen/).
 
#### 5. Rejoice
 
Indeed, this process is a little tedious, but you'll notice immediately how much faster and smoother the new network is as a result of this breach.  The [next one](http://urbit.org/fora/posts/~2017.6.12..22.37.29..3cd8~/) will be even better!
 
Don't hesitate to leave any questions in the comments below, and we'll get back to you as soon as possible.