---
type: post
date: ~2017.1.5..01.33.40..2a0e
title: %eyre and tree updates
author: ~ravmel-ropdyl
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Over the past few months we've been designing a new user experience for Urbit.  I'll post more on that in the next few weeks. Before we start actually building that we've got to clean up the existing client side code.

So, we're gonna start with the functional publishing stack: both the `%eyre` HTTP APIs and the `tree` frontend code.  I'll give an overview of what we're going to do, and I'd be glad to hear feedback.  Or, if you see something you think you could contribute to, let me know!

### `tree` improvement

Here’s the basic outline of my `TODO`:

**Move to ES6**  
Okay, let's be honest, CoffeeScript is outdated.  While I can see the benefit of things like TypeScript and ClojureScript it seems that ES6 has quite a lot of momentum.  I'd like our frontend code to be as understandable as possible to anyone who might want to get involved.  That's the main motivating factor behind the move.  

Here’s a pretty good overview of someone else making the move: [Moving to ES6 from CoffeeScript](https://gist.github.com/danielgtaylor/0b60c2ed1f069f118562).

**Update the toolchain**  
Since ES6 isn’t supported everywhere we’ll still need to transpile.  And, you can’t escape bundling.  I’d like to switch the toolchain to [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) and [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/).  Both seem fine.  I ran into some trouble using webpack 2, so we’ll stick with 1 for now — unless someone can convince me otherwise.  

**Flux to Redux**  
When we initially decided to go with React it has basically just come out.  After we had built a few experiments the [original flux blog post](https://facebook.github.io/react/blog/2014/07/30/flux-actions-and-the-dispatcher.html) came out.  Flux isn’t really a framework so much as an idea. 

Anyway, [Redux](https://github.com/reactjs/redux) looks pretty great.  It also doesn’t seem to painful to make the switch.

**Update the naming**  
What the hell is an `oryx`?  Good question.  Much of the naming conventions in [`urb.js`](https://github.com/urbit/arvo/blob/bbc4d2c0eede0c11a03da3048dcd2173f9607f45/web/lib/js/urb.js) were designed by `~fyr` when he was writing too much Hoon code.  This is going to get overhauled in the direction of `understandableCamelCase`. 

This extends itself into the whole `tree-json` pathway.  `ga`, `gn` and `c` are confusing.  The `json` that `tree` consumes should just look like the DOM.

**Cleanup the `sass`**  
I actually think Bootstrap is still working pretty well for us, and it’d be pretty painful to move.  That being said, our customizations on top of Bootstrap aren’t perfect.  The `sass` needs a deep clean.

**Make it faster**  
One thing `tree` sorely needs is a performance audit.  This is especially painful in the docs where we’re building a bunch of resources into a single page.  This is one area where contributor help would be very much appreciated.

### `%eyre` improvement — 

Here’s our working spec for how the `%eyre` API should look:

##### Auth endpoints

`/~/auth POST`  
`{ship: @p, code:@p}`  
Authenticate `ship` with `code`.  Return `$bool`.

`/~/auth GET`  
Check to see if I’m logged in.  Cookie should be in the header.

`/~/auth DELETE`  
`/~/logout[?redirect=$url] GET`  
Logout with an optional redirect URL for the GET request so you get sent somewhere else.

##### `%clay` endpoints

`/[$renderer/]$path[.$mark] GET`  
Return the contents of `$path` with optional `$renderer` or `$mark` translation.  (Default renderer (`tree`) is implied).

`/~/raw/$path/ GET`  
Return the actual file that exists in `%clay` converted to .mime, with a `x-clay-mark:$mark` header

`/$path.$mark POST`  
Create / update the contents of `$path` with `$mark`, converting from `.mime`.

`/$path.$mark DELETE`  
Delete the `$path` with `$mark`.  Should return an error if `$mark` is incorrect.

`/~/on/$hash.json`  
`$hash` is handed to you by `%ford` when requesting a `$path`.  When this page returns the page may need updating.

##### `%gall` endpoints

`/:[$app]/ GET`  
Sends down a page and javascript bundle.  This is just a convention — an app should have its own renderer.

`/~/send/$app/$path POST`  
Send a message on the `$path` to `$app`.

`/~/subscriptions/$app/$path PUT`  
Request to set up a new subscription channel.  The response payload here should contain the information required to set up the long poll.

`/~/subscriptions/$app/$path DELETE`  
Remove a subscription.

`/~/events/$token?step=$n GET`  
Your `$token` is a hash of your CSRF token.  This URL should be used as a long poll to receive incoming events.  We multiplex all of the results from all the apps you’re subscribed to into this channel.  There’s also a heartbeat (just a result of `{ok:true}`) periodically to keep the session alive.