---
type: post
date: ~2017.10.3..01.53.05..07b3
title: ~rovnys-ricfer on casting
author: ~taglux-nidsep
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

(From [https://github.com/urbit/docs/pull/201](https://github.com/urbit/docs/pull/201), lightly edited by ~taglux-nidsep...)

The fact that `^+` and `^-` both mean "cast" is a good example of why
getting rid of keywords will be nice. I believe they're gone from master
already, and Keaton is working on removing them from the docs.

One thing I didn't realize about `^-` until much later was that it casts the
expression under it. It has nothing to do with the gate itself; you can put
a `^-` anywhere. Gates themselves don't define their product type. We
generally cast the rest of the gate body in the first line so we can tell
what the product type will be, but the casting is separate from the gate
definition (as opposed to, say, c or Haskell).

Putting the cast at the top of the gate is sometimes just an annotation for
readability purposes and not strictly necessary. Sometimes, however, it is
necessary. The common example of this is you want to produce a list, e.g.
`(list tape)`, but your expression actually returns `["foo" "bar" ~]`,
which nests inside `(list tape)` but can't necessarily be used as one in
other pieces of code, because it doesn't have the right span (type).
Casting to list standardizes the span so the result can be used in arms
like `++turn`. I'm still learning some of this, but it looks like it needs
the `i` and `t` faces of a true list, and also needs its span to
recursively include the possibility of being null, whereas the span of a
concretely defined list without a cast only includes the possibility of
null at the end, where it's actually found. So when we try to use that in
an arm that expects a real list, which is a "fork" type (union) of either
`i` and `t` or `$~` (span of null), then when that arm tries to check if
it's null, it's not a valid operation, because the type system already
knows it's not null. So in this case casting to a list generalizes the type
somewhat. I think this is also called the TMI problem: an arm won't work on
a list without the fork type because it has "too much information" about
the span: it knows it's not null.

```
> (turn ["a" "b" ~] lent)
/~zod/home/~2017.9.29..00.15.58..bac9/arvo/ford:<[1.349 24].[1.349 52]>
-find.i.a
find-fork-d
ford: build failed ~[/g/~zod/use/dojo/~zod/inn/hand
/g/~zod/use/hood/~zod/out/dojo/drum/phat/~zod/dojo /d //term/1]

> (turn `(list tape)`["a" "b" ~] lent)
~[1 1]

> (turn [i="a" t=[i="b" t=~]] lent)
/~zod/home/~2017.9.29..00.15.58..bac9/arvo/ford:<[1.349 24].[1.349 52]>
-need.{i/"" t/$~}
-have.$~
nest-fail
ford: build failed ~[/g/~zod/use/dojo/~zod/inn/hand
/g/~zod/use/hood/~zod/out/dojo/drum/phat/~zod/dojo /d //term/1]

> (turn `(list tape)`[i="a" t=[i="b" t=~]] lent)
~[1 1]

> -:!>([i="a" t=[i="b" t=~]])
p=#t/{i/"" t/{i/"" t/$~}}

> -:!>(`(list tape)`[i="a" t=[i="b" t=~]])
p=#t/*""

> ?~  ["a" "b" ~]  %.y  %.n
/~zod/home/~2017.9.29..00.15.58..bac9/arvo/ford:<[1.349 24].[1.349 52]>
mint-vain
ford: build failed

> ?~  `(list tape)`["a" "b" ~]  %.y  %.n
%.n
```