---
type: post
date: ~2017.12.16..19.51.12..f991
title: A week into Urbit's frontend development.
author: ~sivbex-tallyd-mintyv-havmep--hacpel-toppet-dozsen-marzod
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

So.

It has been a long week. I have managed to learn Elm and Purescript :  two functional languages 
which compile to JS (Elm with a runtime). Initially after making Plato prototype in  Elm I decided to try something other because of what it seemed to me as restrictive type system: no type classes, muh functors and so on. Next I tried PureScript. PureScript shares a lot with Haskell. Now, many of you are already running. Don't run yet. I have decided to just stick to Elm. The reasons are the following:

1. My field is theoretical physics and I certainly can appreciate mathematics, but I have become pretty convinced category theory is not how we will program in the feature. Sure I can do exercises with arrows in my head until it becomes natural, but we don't really gain that much. After all we want a robust language for writing frontends. Haskell has its uses. It might be convenient to write a compiler (or we could use rust ;-)). Or some academic proof system which we won't be using anyway. 

2. We won't be using Haskellish type languages to write operating system either. The most successfull project in the history: Linux is to this day written in pure C. It is a wonder what a benevolent dictator can do. Also, having tenths of thousands contributors _do_ help. We want tenths of thousands contributors for Urbit --> We better not use category theory. I love category theory as the next functor, but at the same time 
i remain utterly unconvinced it would result in any substantial benefits for large scale software system. 
In the same spirit that "Real OOP programming has never been tried", "Real Haskell-type FP has never been tried". I think Hoon has made a good choice, and we should look for a frontend language similar in spirit.  

It fact, it is a statistical fact it would _significantly_ decrease potential contributors pool. 
The intersection of "People who will love Urbit" with "People who will love Haskell" would turn out to be measure 0 set. 

3. We want Urbit to be Linux. Urbit's languages should feel more like good old C than anything else. Hoon mission statement is to have mechanical feeling. Check. 

4. Elm managed to perform rare feat: it managed to stop right before the line which once crossed makes language a lagoon for math-types uninhabited by efficient engineers actually writing the systems that will run the tomorrow's world. And we want Urbit to run the tomorrow's world. The Elm creator curiously resisted attempts to turn Elm into Haskell, and for a good reason. 

5. It literally took me 2 days to be up with Elm: something we very much want for Urbit's frontend ecosystem. 
As the Urbits platform stabilizes and more and more systems problems will become pernamently solved, we will see that a huge amount of activity will move into the frontend. 

So you want an encrypted chat linked to the weather channel?
Cool, don't even need to touch hoon, here is the API of hall.hoon/talk.hoon, here is the api of meteo.hoon,
here is how you can build it in 3 hours and be sure it will never break absent some undisclosed bugs. But we have been using talk in another 100 other applications so we are pretty sure *friendly wink*

You want a blockchain based application with secure identity system and coffee notfications?
Even better, our blockchain.hoon abstraction with backends to over hundreds different blockchain technologies make it easy. Here have that API and be running in 2 hours. 

5. Over the next month I hope I will have Plato posted in a repo for everyone interested to see. 


Best, ~ponmep-litsem

