---
type: post
date: ~2017.4.2..23.57.42..7ed3
title: Scrys in %gall: A proposal to change %gall apps
author: ~ponnys-nacwer
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

## Background

Sometimes, it's easier to access data synchronously. Sometimes, you have no choice since you're in a generator.

Consider `.^(@t cx+%/gen/cat/hoon)`. This hoon expression performs a [wish][] for data, and returns it as a `@t`. The hoon interpreter directs this call to `%clay` which handles this "scry".

When you perform a scry, you provide a path which starts with a `++beak` which uniquely identifies a ship, a vane specific identifier and a time or revision. In `%clay`, you can use this to retrieve a file on a ship, on a specific desk, at a specific time. In other vanes, that final identifier isn't present.

Currently, `%gall`, the application manager, handles scries and [calls the `++peek` arm][arm] on your application's core to synchronously retrieve data. But it's current implementation ignores the `++case` (the revision identifier, the 3rd part of the `++beak` tuple). This means it can only accesses the current state of the application. With other vanes, you can go back in time. With `%gall`, no so much.

[wish]: http://urbit.org/~~/docs/hoon/twig/dot-nock/ket-wish/
[arm]: https://urbit.org/~~/fora/posts/~2017.3.18..03.24.15..d6cd~/#c.8094

## How Not To Do This

The obvious way is to just save every previous version of the application core (including the kernels it was compiled against), along with the total state at each call, and then on a scry, figure out the previous application version along with the appropriate previous state. This may be infeasible; it sounds like saving a lot of data, including old kernels.

## On Your Mark...

Urbit already has a system for specifying data types with diff and patch operations, where the definition of the data can change over time. Marks are cores which live in `/===/mar/` which define a data format, specify translation into other marks, and provide diff and patch operations.

Right now, `%gall` applications are just passed their own opaque state, with a `++prep` step to perform translation on app upgrade. I'm proposing that app state becomes coded and decoded by a mark. If an application returns modified state, this would use the mark's built in diffing capabilities to generate a patch and would store both the new state and a patch as part of a chain to recreate state in the past.

This would unify `%gall` scries with the rest of the system. You could perform a scry for an applications state at revision #31 from when the application was started. You could scry for the state at ~2017.4.2..00.32.40..586c. Previous states would be queryable by reconstituting previous state from patches. Or you could just use `=` as your `++case` for the current state.

I'm pretty sure mark evolution is still a giant TODO item, but once mark evolution works, this should allow introspection on old state without having to keep old compiled versions of the application around. It also may be a more elegant way of upgrading application state than `++prep`.
