---
type: post
date: ~2017.2.3..17.45.55..ccf6
title: Incrementally closer to a new %clay
author: ~digser-misset-sicbex-nopnel--bidlet-lornyd-lagbyr-fodlyd
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I've been thinking about `%clay` on and off since `~sorreg-namtyv` posted his
[call for contributions](https://urbit.org/blog/clay/).

Starting from that post, the subsequent
[forum discussion](https://urbit.org/fora/posts/~2016.10.25..17.37.47..6937~/),
and conversations on `urbit-meta`, I've put together this proposal of data
structures, along with an exposition of the capabilities they would represent.
I'm proposing %clay as I think it should be -- without really considering its
current features or implementation (and I'm specifically ignoring the
[Unix interface](https://urbit.org/fora/posts/~2016.11.16..19.25.51..8bcb~/),
which is already settled).

Starting from the ground up, here are the storage structures I envision. (I'm
using the most generic names I could imagine, please Scrabble at your leisure.)

## blobs

```
++  blob-hash  @uvbH
++  blob-store  (map blob-hash *)
```

A blob is a blob is a blob is a noun. The contents of every file is stored as
a blob, keyed by it's hash. The only slightly remarkable thing here is the
customized hash aura.

## filesystem nodes

```
++  node-hash  @uvnH
++  node
  %+  pair
    (unit (cask blob-hash))                      :: "file" contents
  (map coin node-hash)                           :: "directory" children
++  node-store  (map node-hash node)
```

`++node` is the universal filesystem node: it can be a leaf-node or "file"
(`u.p`), a directory (`q`), or both. Leaf nodes are retrieved from the
blob-store, and child nodes from the node-store (which is basically a self-join
table). The name of a node is a property of its parent, and a change to a node
produces a change in each of its ancestors.

A snapshot of a filesystem is a single root node, with descendants included by
reference. But in some cases, we'll want to reify that root node (or a subtree
of it), so we have untyped/typed recursive variants:

```
++  reified-node  (pair (unit (cask)) (map knot reified-node))
++  marked-node   (pair (unit cage) (map knot marked-node))
```

These are each vaguely equivalent to a tarball.

## desks

```
++  revision
  $:  com/commit-hash
      nod/node-hash
      wen/time
  ==
++  desk-state
  $:  hed/@ud                                    :: latest revision number
      wen/time                                   :: last updated
      cur/marked-node                            :: latest root-node (cached)
      hit/(map @ud revision)                     :: history
      lab/(map term @ud)                         :: labels
      mar/(pair desk (unit case))                :: mark discipline
  ==
++  desks  (map desk desk-state)
```

A desk is a `%clay` branch, a much more stable and robust concept than a git
branch (which is merely a pointer to a commit). A desk is a sequence of
numbered revisions, each having a timestamp and pointing to both a root
filesystem node and the commit that created it. A revision is referenced by
its `case`: either its revision number, the timestamp at which it was created,
or its label. The global name for a revision is a `++beak`: `[ship desk case]`.

> And, yes, "revision" is probably a bad name for "the thing referenced by a
> case". But not to worry! All symbols are likely to be Scrabblehashed in the
> grand Hoon tradition.

The *mark discipline* of a desk is the location from which `%clay` retrieves
marks for all type-specific operations. It's a local desk with an optional
case -- the mark discipline can be pinned to a specific case, but defaults
to *null*, the latest case of the desk.

For convenience in serving the namespace, I've put the latest timestamp and
root filesystem node (reified and typed) on the desk itself. But this not essential; the timestamp is already stored on the latest revision, and the
reified node could easily go elsewhere.

## commits

```
++  commit-hash  @uvcH
++  commit-metadata
  $:  who/ship                                   :: author
      dad/(each beak commit-hash)                :: parent
      wen/time                                   :: timestamp
      say/wain                                   :: message
  ==               
++  commit  (pair commit-metadata changeset)
++  commit-lookup  (map beak commit-hash)
++  commit-store  (map commit-hash commit)
++  commit-nodes  (map commit-hash node-hash)    :: (root nodes)

```

%clay as a versioned filesystem is really three different types of collections:
a tree of nodes, an ordered set of revisions, and a DAG of commits. If this
were git, we'd have only the filesystem tree and commit graph; a branch is just
a mutable pointer to a commit. But this is not git, and we don't have mutable
pointers to anything. Instead, we immutably reference commits with revisions
in a desk.

And this is a very important distinction: revisions are not commits, and
sequential revisions are not necessarily connected edges in a graph. Since
they point into the graph from the Outside, revisions are completely flexible,
and can even be *arbitrarily discontiguous*.

But commits are the glue that hold us all together. A commit is a changeset,
authored by someone, finalized at a timestamp, optionally described with a
message, and having a *single primary parent* either a known beak or an
anonymous commit. What about merges, you ask? Read on, I reply.

## changesets

But I must ask you to wait a little longer. Merges, the most imporant
structure in a DVCS, are kind of a complicated topic -- so I'm deferring as
long as I can.

Let's run through the pages in the `++changeset` book individually.

#### `$patch`

```
{$patch (lone (set change))}
```

In the typical case, the changeset of a commit is just a patch: a set of
filesystem changes. And the parent of the commit is the latest revision of the
desk, stored at `dad` as a `++beak`.

```
++  patch  (urge)
++  change
  $%  {$cop (pair path (pair (unit mark) path))} ::  copy p to q
      {$del (lone path)}                         ::  delete p
      {$ins (pair path (pair mark blob-hash))}   ::  insert q at p (clobber?)
      {$mov (pair path path)}                    ::  move p to q
      {$mut (pair path patch)}                   ::  apply q to p
  ==
```

We're either mutating the contents of a leaf (with `$mut`), inserting a new leaf (with `$ins`), or transforming the filesystem tree (`$cop`, `$del`, and
`$mov`). Of course, %clay should mark the blob (via %ford) and only allow
`$mut` and `$ins` commits with valid nouns.

As a reminder, these are the *storage structures*, so the `$ins` blob is
included by reference.

#### `$revert`

```
{$revert (lone beak)}
```

We obviously want to be able to revert a desk to a previous revision. And we
may want to *force* a desk to any arbitrary `beak`, a la `git branch -f`. But
I'm not sure that the commit graph is the right place for this information ...

As we discussed, the separation between commits and revisions in a desk already
allows discontinuity, so creating new commits that simply alias extant commits
doesn't seem quite right. Logically speaking, forcing a new revision of a desk
to mirror an arbitrary beak is an operation *on the desk*, not the commit graph
or filesystem tree.

Which leaves the question of representation. Simply creating a new `++revision`
with the relevant commit-hash seems insufficient; you'd have to inspect the
commit ancestry to determine that a discontinuity has occurred. So it seems
that we need to revise `++revision`:

```
++  revision
  $:  nod/node-hash
      wen/time
      rev/(each beak commit-hash)
  ==
```

`rev` would be a commit-hash under normal conditions, and a beak if the revision represents a discontinuity.

#### `$mark`

We obviously need to be able to change the mark discipline of a desk. At first
glance, this shouldn't be a commit: the mark discipline is a property of the
desk, not the commit graph or filesystem tree. And yet, the mark discipline
establishes the semantic context within which the validity of typed leaf nodes
can be established. So it can't *only* be a property of the desk ...

We need to know the specific marks that validated the product any given commit:
we need the historical discipline as well as the current. Putting them all in
the commit graph is the simplest, least-redundant way to maintain them:

```
{$mark (pair desk (unit case))}
```

My assumption is that the vast majority of desks will use `[%base ~]` as their
mark discipline, and have no reason to change. We can use the timestamp of a
commit against the mark-discipline desk to find the specific revision of a
mark was used for any particular historical node.

Changing the discipline may result in selective re-marking of leaf nodes (if
mark definitions have actually changed), which in turn could lead to
newly-invalidated nodes. That's somewhat like a merge conflict, but may need
to be handled differently. We'll come back to the implications later.

#### `$merge`

At last we come to merge.

> The user has one intent whether merging or rebasing, which is to combine
> changes on one desk into another. The algorithm used to construct this
> change, whether operational transformation (rebasing) or a 3-way diff
> (merging) has one goal: use all available information to model the authors'
> editing intent as realistically as possible. If we save edges, we should use
> edges.
> 
> Whether to define the resulting change graph with the typical structure of a
> merge, or the typical structure of a rebase, strikes me as quite arbitrary,
> and well into the land of "pick one and force everyone to stick with it."
> But this call demands a real expert on RCS workflow, which I'm not.
> 
> - `~sorreg-namtyv` in [Towards a new %clay](https://urbit.org/blog/clay/)

I'm inclined to agree with that quote, or at least one possible interpretation of it. (I have some additional caveats for a cherry-picking workflow.) For the sake of clarity, let's refer to this merge-or-rebase operation as a
*branch convergence*.

I think that the question of whether to merge or rebase divergent branches is
actually two separate questions: what structure the commit graph should take,
and how the convergence should be implemented. The graph structure exists to document the evolution of a filesystem tree and store changes to it
reproducibly, while the implementation should only be concerned with producing
the most accurate convergence.

We should also consider the structure of a desk -- I think a convergence
operation should only produce a single revision, regardless of the strategy
used. While that doesn't require a merge-commit graph structure, it strongly
suggests one. 

Merge-commits more accurately model the actions of the user by explicitly representing the convergence of divergent forks. In contrast, rebase
(operational transform) serializes the changes, less accurately describing the
users actions, but more accurately combining them than 3-way diff (see Zooko's
[simple](https://tahoe-lafs.org/~zooko/badmerge/simple.html) and
[complex](https://tahoe-lafs.org/~zooko/badmerge/concrete-good-semantics.html)
examples of a bad merge).

If that's correct, it suggests that branch convergence should be structurally represented with a merge commit, and implemented through operational transform.
But that may be nonsensical! Let's compare to the current merge strategies:

- `$init`: new desk
- `$this`: ours with parents
- `$that`: hers with parents
- `$fine`: fast forward
- `$meet`: orthogonal files
- `$mate`: orthogonal changes
- `$meld`: force merge

I think we can dispense with `$init` and `$that`, which are both special cases
of generic discontinuities. I can't think of a use-case for `$this` -- is it
just to facilitate later merges?

And I don't see how either `$fine` and `$meet` are affected by the choice of
merge or rebase; in either case, the sequential application of `her` changes
to `our` desk should be identical to "a one-sided, 3-way merge".

Which brings us to `$mate`. As I see it, the key question is this: do two
divergent set of timestamped `++urge` patches contain enough information
to be rewritten into a linear convergence? It seems to me that they should,
but mainlining patch theory has left me somewhat muddled on this topic ...

As for the graph structure itself, it seems imprecise to describe a
merge-commit as simply having multiple parents. Like all other commits, it has a primary parent (the commit of the previous revision in *our* desk).
Additionally, it descends from the commit of the target revision of *her* desk,
so I'm inclined to store that reference separately.

```
{$merge (trel beak germ (unit conflict))}
```

#### `$merge` variants

There are some other merge/rebase operations that deserve special
consideration.

> For some of these, it may also be useful to allow
> *anonymous commits*, ie, commits not referenceable via `beak`. For this
> reason, `dad.commit` is `(each beak commit-hash)`: publicly addressable
> commits wherever possible, anonymous hashes otherwise.

- **multi-merge**

This is useful for simultaneously converging multiple topic/feature branches.
In git, these type of merges use the *octopus* strategy (the git docs say that it "refuses to do a complex merge that needs manual resolution"). I'm not
exactly sure how that translates to the current merge strategies; it seems
straightforward to handle `$meet` (and `$fine`, although that's a somewhat
implausible use-case). While a robust `$mate` implementation could conceivably
handle multiple desks simultaneously, I'm not sure that we want it to ...

```
{$multi-merge (pair (set beak) (unit conflict))}
```

- **partial-merge**

Or maybe more properly a subset-merge, ie, merging on a path. Seems like a
pretty useful feature -- is there a good reason to avoid supporting it?

```
{$partial-merge (quad beak germ path (unit conflict))}
```

- **cherry-pick**

As I said earlier, I think merge and rebase can be generally "unconfused". But
cherry-picking one-or-more commits (and optionally squashing them) is a
fundamentally different operation than *branch convergence*, and I think
it's a pretty important DVCS workflow. I'd like to see it supported in %clay,
but it could be implemented in userspace instead, as long as there's a place
to store the necessary historical metadata (ie, a pointer to the original
source commit).

```
{$rebase (pair (set change) (set beak))}
```

This would also be the right structure for a completely general-purpose
git-style rebase, but I'm not sure that's a problem. It's also worth noting that this might be the right approach for storing a `$partial-merge`.

- **general rebase**

There is one use-case where I'm convinced that a general, git-style rebase is
the correct approach: the nonced working desks. It seems obviously correct
that "merging" upstream changes into a working desk should be roughly analogous
to `git pull --rebase`.

#### `$merge` conflicts

```
++  conflict  (set (pair path (pair patch patch)))
```

I've heard it said on `urbit-meta` that "conflict state should die in a fire".
(I think it was `~rolsut-rospub`; my apologies if I've misquoted you!)

It seems that conflicting changes in a branch convergence *have* to result in
some kind of an incomplete state, and block further updates until the conflict
is resolved. While in that state, current-timestamp read requests would
resolve to the most recent *non-conflicted* revision.

While that `++conflict` definition is perfectably to suitable for merge-style branch convergence, rebase-style could use more information -- the conflict will always be between two specific changesets.

```
++  conflict                                     ::  we failed to apply,
  %^  trel  commit-hash                          ::  against our commit,
    beak                                         ::  from her beak
  (set (pair path (pair patch patch)))           ::  ...
```

As for resolution, the only question I see is this: should a conflicted
convergence and its resolution produce one commit, or two? For ease of both
manipulation and reconstruction, two seems superior.

```
{$resolve (pair beak (set patch))}
```

(The beak would just point to the previous version, so maybe it should
implicit.)

> Or, if you're looking for fun, we could create some kind of
> [Heisen-document](https://bosker.wordpress.com/2012/05/10/on-editing-text/)
> ... (I just needed an excluse to link that, and the
> [update](https://bosker.wordpress.com/2014/06/19/revisiting-on-editing-text))

## structural limitations

I've used sets throughout these structures to emphasize uniqueness, but some of them may need to be ordered collections. Those could just be lists, with
uniqueness enforced programatically.

There are some higher-level limitations which need to be called out explicitly:

- **unique leaf-node names**

A "directory" node cannot contain leaf-nodes with the same name but different
marks. In Unix terms (where a file extension is analogous to a mark) you can
have `foo/` and `foo.txt` as siblings, but not `foo.txt` and `foo.jpg`.

- **droppable filesystem snapshots**

Safely dropping old filesystem snapshots (ie, a root-node and its descendants)
to save space would be a computationally expensive operation. Any given node
could be the product of many different commits, could be referenced by many
revisions, etc. And nodes won't even be large; the real space-saving would come
with dropping blobs, would could be referenced by many nodes *and* many comits.
Every node and every commit would need to be scanned to determine if a given
blob could safely be dropped.

Given the proposed structures, this could be solved by adding additional
lookup maps to represent these inverse relationships. But maybe the structures
themselves should change ... That's obviously hard to assess without a clear
picture of the use-case.

Is there currently a mechanism for instructing a vane to reduce its memory
footprint, or is this future-proofing? Under what circumstances would such
an instruction be given?

- **discontinuities affect Arvo semantics**

Vanes and apps (ie, any Hoon source that represents *stateful* computation)
have unidirectional change semantics: state adapters can not run in reverse.
And this won't change, and shouldn't; the mind boggles at the complexity of
safely reversible transitions.

But this means that any revert-like desk-level discontinuity in a desk that
hosts vanes or an app could be structurally valid to %clay, but semantically
invalid to %gall, or Arvo itself.

That's not necessarily disqualifying, but it's certainly a complication. One
heavy-handed solution: kiln and %gall could simply refuse to reload/reset
older revisions. Are there lighter-touch ways to make this safe?

- **rewritten merge changes aren't stored**

The rewritten (operationally-transformed) changes in a branch convergence
(merge) aren't currently stored anywhere. Any subsequent merges that include
a merge commit will have to repeat the transformation. The solution could be
as simple as caching the changes for future consumers, I just wanted to note
the problem specifically.

- **intergalactic merges**

Both merge and rebase algorithms require a common ancestor (or the artificial
creation of one, in criss-cross merge), but they are vanishingly unlikely to
have one in the case of branch convergences that span multiple galaxies. (Even
if the contents of certain ancestral commits match, the metadata will not, so
the hashes will necessarily differ.) Should there be some mechanism for
asserting the equivalence between commits (and propogating that assertion)?
How else might this be resolved?

- **merge with divergent mark disciplines**

Storing marks outside of a desk simplifies some things, but complicates
others. Specifically, if you merge from a desk whose mark-discipline is ahead
of yours (say it has marks that your's doesnt), your merge can't succeed. But
it's also not really conflicted... The simplest "solution" is just an error
message telling you to merge updates into your mark-discipline desk, but that
feels kinda messy. And it's not really a sufficient solution for automatically-triggered merges ...

- **expensive blame**

Much like git, a *blame* operation against these structures would be pretty
computationally expensive. I'm not sure how much of a problem this is, and it
might simply be resolved through caching, but I wanted to mention it
specifically. (Full patch theory has advantages here, but we obviously don't
want to go down that road.)

- **semantic diff/patch structure**

This ones a bit far afield, but I think it should be mentioned anyway. The
current structure for patches/diffs is `++urge`, and it's entirely sufficient
for any structure considered as a sequence of tokens (ie, *serialized*). But
if %clay is to support truly semantic diffs, we'll need a representation for
differences between trees. I think there's room for useful tools here without
generally solving graph isomorphisms (see custom XML and programming-language
diff tools). Is this an area of interest to %clay?

Some resources:

- [ChangeDistiller (open source semantic java diff)](https://bitbucket.org/sealuzh/tools-changedistiller/wiki/Home)
- [Change Distilling: Tree Differencing for Fine-Grained Source Code Change Extraction](http://www.merlin.uzh.ch/publication/show/2531)
- [A Fine-Grained XML Structural Comparison Approach](http://le2i.cnrs.fr/IMG/publications/ER%20Final%20LNCS.pdf)

## additional structures

Clay will obviously need structures beyond those core molds -- here are some
that may require special consideration.

#### filesystem metadata

- **timestamps**

While creation and last-modification timestamps for a node can be derived from
the commit graph, we'll likely want to store them directly for easy access.
These would be properties of a path, and unversioned.

- **attributes**

I assume that %clay will not have a use for standard node attributes (hidden,
archive, etc.). But I have no opinion one way or the other about user-defined
attributes.

#### access control

The simplest model for controlling writes (ie, commits) is to only allow them
from the local ship. Collaboration could be restricted to pull-requests,
implemented in user-space.

Read access control for entire desks is also straightforward: public, private,
or a whitelist of ships (likely with a group abstraction at some point in the
future). And the ACLs would obviously be unversioned, with the obvious
consequence that some actions (such as a merge) may be rendered unrepeatable
due to ACL changes.

But per-node permissions seem to have trickier implications. Would patches
(and therefore merges) be rewritten to only include permitted nodes? Should
there be separate permissions for determining the existence of a node vs
retrieve its contents? And so on ...

#### implementation structures

It seems like %ford-style monadic structures would be a good fit for both
commit and merge processing.

And working-desks may be best represented with a different structure; they
don't need to represent the full complexity of a desk, just a snapshot with
some changes on top.

Foreign desks might need their own structure for similar reasons. A simple
lookup of beak->commit-hash goes a long way, along with timestamps for the
latest case. Unless we want to be able to drop foreign commits for
space-savings ...

Foreign data for merge/sync processing will take different forms depending on
the context:

- discontinuity: receive the latest commit, root-node, and all descendants
- first merge: negotiate ancestry (find mergebase), receive subsequent commits
- subsequent merges: send latest known case, receive subsequent commits

## mark semantics

I can't seem to think about marks without spiralling into an abyss of
complexity. For instance, what are the proper semantics of a Hoon mark? Should
it parse? Compile? What about %ford dependencies? Clearly, moar type-info is
better than not, until it's not. Have you ever *looked* at your hands?

So anyway, I'll try to keep this brief, and stick to those questions that are
intrinsic to %clay.

To recap, marks are referenced symbolically in leaf-nodes; their actual
implementation is retrieved from the `beak` specified by a desk's
mark-discipline. That implementation provides two essential functions to
%clay: producing diffs and validating leaf-nodes (by molding the noun and
asserting a fixpoint, a la `;;`).

#### self discipline

Should a desk be allowed to be its own mark discipline? If so, should changes
to the mark source files be limited to isolated commits? Or is it sufficient
to globally define processing order (ie, marks first, subsequent changes in
light of the marks)?

#### mark conflicts

Local, manually-initiated operations can fail -- a commit that produces an
invalid noun, per its mark, can be rejected. But automatically triggered
actions (ie, syncs) can't just fail, which suggests the need for some type of
mark-conflict. This would most likely arise when merging desks with
incompatible mark disciplines (ie, containing mark versions with non-nesting
spans).

We would need the paths, but I'm not sure what else; it doesn't seem very
meaningful to store a span-conflict, least not computationally (it might be
useful descriptively). You'd obviously have to change either the mark source
or the leaf-node itself to resolve such a conflict.

### mark versions

One possible solution would be to never change the span of a mark. With the
current system, you could simply create `%mark-1`, `%mark-2`, etc. That's a little ugly, but it's also pretty simple. The alternative would be some type
of semantic-versioning scheme for marks (meant generically, not semver ...).

### mark upgrades

Another solution could be explicit upgrades within a mark, but I'm really not sure what that should look like. The app convention of explicitly tagging
nouns with a version number doesn't seem like a good fit for filesystem data,
at least at first glance. But it's hard to know for sure: if most mark
upgrades will be app-specific data structures, it might really be sufficient.

The alternatives I can think of are either really tricky molds, or adding some
type of metadata to the span, and neither of those is particularly attractive
...

## interface

I'll save the moves for another day -- they should fall out pretty naturally
once the structures and features are nailed down.

There are some obvious namespace additions to call out:

- desk history from a case (ie, log)
- commit ancestry from a case
- current processing state
- direct commit/node by hash

The first two are very different, and both crucial to useability. (I'm
specifically looking forward to a nice d3 visualization from the combination
of both.) The last two should probably be local-only.

## questions

I had hoped to be able to present and describe a set of structures, the
interfaces to them, and some outstanding questions -- everything necessary to
actually begin. But it became clear as I wrote these descriptions that the
cart was before the horse: the high-level view needs to be validated before
the concrete questions can be resolved.

Of course, it's hard to present a high-level view of sufficient resolution
without considering the concrete questions -- at least, that's my excuse for
the schizophrenic nature of this document. (It also took a lot longer than I anticipated, contributing to my suspicion...)

So my questions at this point are pretty general:

- does the 3-tier storage model ring true (node tree, commit DAG, desk log)?
- is this overall vision for %clay compatible with your own?
- have I left out anything major?

---

For easy review, here's all the structures together:

```hoon
|%
::
::::  blobs
::
++  blob-hash  @uvbH
::
++  blob-store  (map blob-hash *)
::
::::  nodes
::
++  node-hash  @uvnH
::
++  node
  %+  pair
    (unit (cask blob-hash))                      :: "file" contents
  (map coin node-hash)                           :: "directory" children
::
++  node-store  (map node-hash node)
::
++  reified-node  (pair (unit (cask)) (map knot reified-node))
::
++  marked-node   (pair (unit cage) (map knot marked-node))
::
::::  commits
::
++  commit-hash  @uvcH
::
++  commit-metadata
  $:  who/ship                                   :: author
      dad/(each beak commit-hash)                :: parent
      wen/time                                   :: timestamp
      say/wain                                   :: message
  ==
::
++  commit  (pair commit-metadata changeset)
::
++  commit-lookup  (map beak commit-hash)
::
++  commit-store  (map commit-hash commit)
::
++  commit-nodes  (map commit-hash node-hash)    :: (root nodes)
::
::::  changesets
::
++  patch  (urge)
::
++  change
  $%  {$cop (pair path (pair (unit mark) path))} ::  copy p to q
      {$del (lone path)}                         ::  delete p
      {$ins (pair path (pair mark blob-hash))}   ::  insert q at p (clobber?)
      {$mov (pair path path)}                    ::  move p to q
      {$mut (pair path patch)}                   ::  apply q to p
  ==
::
++  changeset
  $%  {$mark (pair desk (unit case))}            ::  update mark discipline
      {$merge (trel beak germ (unit conflict))}  ::  merge p via q, conflicted?
                                                 ::  merge all of p
      {$multi-merge (pair (set beak) (unit conflict))}
                                                 ::  merge r:p via q
      {$partial-merge (quad beak germ path (unit conflict))}
      {$patch (lone (set change))}               ::  apply all of p
      {$rebase (pair (set change) (set beak))}   ::  apply all of p (q is src)
      {$resolve (pair beak (set patch))}         ::  resolve conflicted merge
  ==
::
++  conflict                                     ::  merge-style
  (set (pair path (pair patch patch)))
::
++  conflict                                     ::  rebase-style
  %^  trel                                       ::  (we failed to apply,
      commit-hash                                ::  against our commit,
    beak                                         ::  from her beak
  (set (pair path (pair patch patch)))           ::  ...)
::
::::  desks
::
++  revision
  $:  nod/node-hash
      wen/time
      rev/(each beak commit-hash)                :: discontiguous or direct
  ==
::
++  desk-state
  $:  hed/@ud                                    :: latest revision number
      wen/time                                   :: last updated
      cur/marked-node                            :: latest root-node (cached)
      hit/(map @ud revision)                     :: history
      lab/(map term @ud)                         :: labels
      mar/(pair desk (unit case))                :: mark discipline
  ==
::
++  desks  (map desk desk-state)
--
```
