---
type: post
date: ~2017.5.30..04.45.41..dbd2
title: Mark Adventures (i.e. Problems): Passing Nouns to Other Ships
author: ~fittyn-fitsub-sigbex-hocdeb--misbud-hactyn-toddys-holryg
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I want to pass a noun from ship A so that it activates a `++  poke-noun` on ship B.  For some reason I'm having a heck of a time trying to make it work.  Here's the program on ship A (`nounpasser.hoon`):

```
/?    314
|%
  ++  move  {bone term wire *}
--
!:
|_  {bowl state/$~}
::
++  poke-noun
  |=  g/*
  =/  buddy
    ~bitrym-sogmun-hatlun-fithet--sicpyx-nolwyd-tabben-findex
  ^-  {(list move) _+>.$}
  ~&  ["I'm going to send this noun to a friend:" g]
  [[[ost %poke /sending [buddy %friend] %noun g] ~] +>.$]
:: 
++  coup
  |=  *
  ~&  %noun-acknowledged
  [~ +>.$]
--
```

Nothing too exciting here... I take a noun, and pass it to app `friend.hoon`, which is running on my `buddy` ship, which is the comet `~bitrym-sogmun-hatlun-fithet--sicpyx-nolwyd-tabben-findex`.  Here's `friend.hoon`:

```
/?    314
|%
  ++  move  {bone term wire *}
--
!:
|_  {bowl state/$~}
::
++  poke-noun
  |=  g/*
  ^-  {(list) _+>.$}
  ~&  ["Here's the noun!:" g]
  [~ +>.$]
::
++  coup
  |=  *
  [~ +>.$]
--
```

Again, nothing too interesting.  I start the apps on each ship, and enter `:nounpasser [12 13]` on the first.  I should get a `printf` of the noun on the second ship, right?  Wrong.  Nothing at all shows up in `buddy`'s terminal, and yet I get `%noun-acknowledged` on the sending ship.  What's going on?

One revision that *does* work is to write an `atom` passing program instead.  If I adjust the above two programs by adjusting the expected types and changing the mark in my call, everything works fine.  This leads me to think there is something inherently wrong with the `noun` mark.

But there doesn't seem to be!  If put both of the above programs on the same ship, and instead of sending to `buddy %friend` I send to `our %friend`, again, the programs work as desired.  It's only the combination of using a `noun` mark and sending to another ship that causes a problem.  The only thing I can think of is that %gall doesn't like nouns for some reason.  Any advice?