---
type: post
date: ~2017.4.26..18.00.25..b93c
title: Talk as a sustainable social platform
author: ~palfun-foslup
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Here's a thing I wrote about some of my thoughts on talk's role as a social platform, and how to make/keep it sustainable and healthy for the long run. Some of you may find this interesting or have thoughts of your own to pitch in, so I'm posting it here.

(Note: stations have been canonically renamed to circles.)

# Federation and friends

There is one key point in which talk is still majorly lacking: discoverability. Tangentially related to it is the problem of co-hosting circles.  
Let's take a look at this, and how to tackle it in a sustainable way.


## The problems

> how can i find other circles to join?

-- *someone in urbit-meta, recently*

There currently exists no single index of active circles. Hell, even urbit-meta is only discoverable because it is mentioned in the docs and on the stream page. People may be interested in talking about music, but the music circle is only advertised through word of mouth.

This currently isn't a problem. Banned topics aside, the entire community fits into urbit-meta just fine. It might not be long though, before it'll become basically mandatory to split based on interests and backgrounds. Just word of mouth might not be enough to grow these splinter groups, so maybe it would be a good idea to have stars list all the public circles their children are hosting.

But...

> Evaporative Cooling is a fundamental social dynamic and one that is corrosive to the long term health of communities.

-- *Hang, 2010*

(For more detailed background information on what I'll discuss below, I *highly* recommend reading [the post I pulled the above quote from](https://web.archive.org/web/20161009233301/http://blog.bumblebeelabs.com/social-software-sundays-2-the-evaporative-cooling-effect/), and maybe also [someone else's post that builds upon it](https://www.ribbonfarm.com/2010/10/27/warrens-plazas-and-the-edge-of-legibility/).)

Basically, "evaporative cooling" is the process in which top contributors of a community leave, lowing the average quality, causing the next-best contributors to leave, and so on.  
Hang also states that "*openness is a major driver of Evaporative Cooling*", because allowing everyone to join a group will lead to a lowering average quality (ie, exclusive to fanatics vs open to casuals), which kickstarts evaporative cooling.

Despite the destructive effects of evaporative cooling, we see online social networks that have persisted for over ten years and are still going strong. How?  
They keep their sub-groups harder to discover while reducing cross-pollination to a minimum. Whatever someone from California posts to Facebook doesn't influence a New Yorker's experience, *unless* they have passed the barrier of entry that is connecting to each other. This "warren"-like structure keeps groups tight and user-chosen to an extreme degree, preventing evaporative cooling.

On the opposite end of that sit "plazas", where every action can be seen by everyone. Though they contract warrens, they're not necessarily their worse counterpart. In fact, they complement each other. Small communities can't easily emerge and flourish in a network of warrens without them being discoverable one way or another.  
Care needs to be taken to not make this too easy (to avoid the openness that causes evaporative cooling), but it also shouldn't be ridiculously hard (stunting growth of communities). The barrier of entry into communities needs to be just right, and it may be a fine line to walk.

Interestingly, one could say the internet as a social network of sorts is a network of warrens, where the barrier of entry to a specific warren is always either searching for or being linked to it. Judging by the many different communities that thrived on the internet in the 90's and early 00's, this was a successful model... until giant social networks took over this role.  
(Don't quote me on that last bit. Please share your thoughts!)

> [something about federation being difficult]

-- some circle host, sometime

...Oh yeah, and federation as in co-hosting of a circle should be easier than it currently is.


## Possible solutions

To recap, we want to seek the point where communities (in our case, circles) are open enough to be able to grow and flourish, but closed enough to avoid a large influx of content/contributors the community deems low-quality. We need a barrier of entry that is just right.

Having a star list all its children's circles is likely too open, and would give users too big and broad a list of circles to choose from once the network grows.

We may be dismissing Urbit's hierarchical properties for this cause, but before Urbit is hierarchical, it is peer-to-peer. Most people, especially on a digital platform, have varied enough connections to cover most if not all of their interests.

So why don't we, to provide a circle index, show users a list of circles their connections have (publicly) joined? This will keep the public exposure of small circles down, avoiding overcrowding while still facilitating discoverability. A network effect for growing communities, if you will. Not entirely unlike the "internet as a social network" described above.  
(Circles created by and for specific applications may need to be filtered from such an index.)

One side effect of this is that if a circle gets popular enough, it will be on the index of huge amounts of people. This may or may not be a problem.

For large, generic circles like urbit-meta, it may be responsible of a star to federate them, making them visible to all its children.

Briefly touching upon federation again, the current situation sees two circles "linked" to each other by adding each other as sources. This works for messages, but presence isn't fully shared and configuration mirroring isn't enforced.  
A better approach might be to use a different communication wire for indicating two circles want to share each other's state. They can use this subscription channel to authoritatively share state, going as far as accepting changes to a circle's configuration.  
This does mean some trust is required, so a whitelist of allowed hosts might be appropriate.


## Aside on social bubbling

Something that is very much a real problem with Facebook, and to a lesser degree other social networks (and any service that provides "tailored to you" content/results), is the "bubbling" effect. People only subscribe to opinions (facts, even) they agree with, so they only see things they agree with. This seems unhealthy for society in the long-term, because it creates these echo chambers (bubbles), where the same beliefs grow stronger and stronger without concern for whatever falls outside their view. Though the stronger individuality this brings is a good thing, this may also divide people more than it connects them in the grander scheme of things.

The solution proposed above does not solve this. Hell, it may very well be part of the cause of evaporative cooling. People do not *want* to see opinions/facts they don't agree with. Plazas force them to still do this, warrens allow them to stay in their own bubble. Even if they have easy access to warrens that they disagree with, they'll likely never choose to take part in those.

Bottom line, bubbling seems like something that needs to be solved, but doing so may go against what needs to be done to create a sustainable social network.
