---
type: post
date: ~2017.9.17..00.24.15..b358
title: Hatching A Plan to Connect to NeoVim
author: ~siddev
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I'm lazy. I find laziness more motivating then just about any other virtue I have encountered, aside from curiosity. This state of affairs has driven me to depend on autocompletion, a rich text editor, and repl experience.  There is nothing I enjoy more than feeling the code is something you can touch and feel. I see this experience as having two primary components. First, the ability to evaluate chunks of code inside of a running environment from your text editor and get a result inline. Second the ability to ask the environment questions about it's self, like which symbols are exposed, or what is a symbols signature (not sure of the hoon term for signature, a correction would be appreciated). Both of these can be probably be accomplished through some use or the `urb` python package, but I suspect it will become clunky. To accomplish it I think (and these are just thoughts of a naive hoon acolyte, so take them with a salt shaker and please correct me) these might be reasonable steps to there:

1. Implement MsgPack in Hoon
2. Implement A way for urbit to reach out to a running neovim server (neovim broke vim up into a client and a server)
3. Implement a generator for nvim state updates so that hoon/gall(?) apps can react to it 
4. Implement a sink to respond to the nvim session. 
5. Victory and Fanfaire! :P 

Please respond with thoughts, disinterest, or better ideas.