---
type: post
date: ~2017.2.15..14.16.12..8c82
title: How Urbit can fix Twitter's troll problem
author: ~dandel-rovbur
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

In the past ~6 months there have been a number of high-profile Twitter quits,
mostly due to vandals being so violent and uncontrollable that the quitting user
can't take it anymore. They give up the opportunity to talk with their fans
because of a few bad apples.

In order to fix the problem, Twitter has a few options: (1) employ a team to
manually handle all the reported vandals, (2) use machine learning to try and
classify vandals and non-vandals automatically, (3) require proof of real-world 
identity (recently Twitter started requiring a phone number associated with each
account), or a combination of the above, etc. 

1 and 2 would place a strain on Twitter-the-company, a strain probably too large
to handle, given the size of their user base. 3 just offloads the problem to the
external world, be it the telephony system via phone numbers or the government
system via issued ID's. None of these actually improve the Twitter identity
system as such - each solution is ad hoc, just tacked on to a system that is
already inherently vulnerable to vandals.

Here's another idea. Twitter already has "verified accounts" - you know those
accounts with the blue check mark next to them, mostly owned by celebrities or
businessmen. Twitter could first put a hard limit on the number of verified
accounts, something manageable for a company of Twitter's size. Then, each
verified account would be responsible for "vouching" for other accounts. They
would look among their followers and say "this person seems to be okay, I vouch
for them!" *click*. The vouching bar need not be too high, but each non-verified
account would show which verified accounts have vouched for them. Thus,
reputation becomes important: if @elonmusk (a known verified account) has
vouched for @giantsfan33, then I have a bit of reassurance that @giantsfan33
isn't a completely awful vandal. If @giantsfan33 starts harassing people, then
it wouldn't look good for @elonmusk, and presumably he would reavoke his
vouching. Of course there are lots of details that could be discussed, but the
system does not need to be perfect: over time, it will tend toward labeling the
vandals as vandals, and the normal "good" users will be vouched for.

In this scenario, what would happen to the vandals? Simply speaking, they would
get demoted. The "vouching" actions of verified accounts thus act as an
automated policing structure. By making verified accounts vouch for other
accounts, Twitter has essentially "crowdsourced" a solution to its vandal
problem.

If this sounds like a good idea to you, then you would love Urbit. Its identity
system is very much like what I describe above, except more sophisticated with
cryptology and such.

One critique of Urbit's identity system it that, by imposing this hierarchy of
identity verification on users, it is [fascist][pushcx]. Disregarding the
naievety of the definition of "fascism" in that linked comment, there is an
important point: that we must be aware of the structure of our services, because
they could be [controlling us in subtle ways][cal]. There is an entire branch of
postmodern philosophy called "structuralism" that deals with this type of
analysis, and we would be right to study Lacan and Foucault. 

But actually, what is more fascist here? The model of Urbit, where the system is
self-policing, or the current model of Twitter/Facebook/Google, where a single
company controls the identity service? _Even if_ the structure of feudalism and
derivatively the structure of Urbit's identity hierarchy is _inherently_ fascist
(which is a _big_ "if", mind you) I think it would still be a step in the right
direction for social networks. Instead of internet identities being controlled
by a few companies, the power would be spread out among the ~65,000 "stars" in
the network. If you ask me, Urbit is the least fascist thing to come out of
"social networks" since email was invented.

_Feel free to reproduce this article elsewhere, as you see fit._

[cal]: http://calnewport.com/blog/2017/02/13/facebook-phreaks-and-the-fight-to-reclaim-time-and-attention/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+StudyHacks+%28Study+Hacks%29
[pushcx]: https://lobste.rs/c/4z4gik
