---
type: post
date: ~2016.7.29..17.25.38..95fb
title: I am a Strange Core (or, Jet-Propelled Stupidity)
author: ~pormev-taglyn
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I am a Strange Core (or, Jet-Propelled Stupidity)
=================================================
I've been thinking a lot lately about cores. Cores are really boring, right?
They're just `(pair battery payload)`, where a battery is either a simple nock
formula or a tree of nock formulas (I think most people understand this part
pretty well) and payload is...

Wait, what's in the payload again? When we pull an arm out of this core
(select one of the battery's nock formulae to execute), we replace the head of
this payload (the sample) with the new sample, and execute the formula *with
the entire core as the subject*. This is just nock `9`, what could be
interesting about that?

Lambdas, environments, and subjects... oh my!
---------------------------------------------
Many of us have done some programming in functional, procedural, and OO
languages. In all of these paradigms, there is an implicit "context" that any
piece of gets executed in. In functional languages, it's the lexical
environment (in less pure languages, there is also a dynamic environment). In
procedural languages, it's the global scope. In OO languages, it's the
object/class heirarchy.

In Hoon, the context is... the context. In the core.  It's right there next to
the payload, the tail of the tail (`+7`, `+>`) of the core. Of course that's
where you put it...  a core is `(trel code dynamic-env static-env)`. There's
no "invisible" context that your code executes in, it's precisely the subject
your core was compiled against, and it's convenenily located at axis 7 in the
core. Oh.

Maybe I'm just stupid
---------------------
Perhaps this was all obvious to you the moment you learned about nock. It sure
wasn't to me. The beauty of this design didn't quite hit me until I thought
about jets a lot. When I was reading through
[u3.md](http://urbit.org/docs/about/runtime/), I kept thinking "why do jets
need all this complicated machinery? They seem like a pretty simple idea."
Particularly, I didn't understand why they were in a tree, and why each entry
in that tree had a "parent" axis. If you're as stupid as me, perhaps the
following explanation will help.

Consider the following snippet of hoon:

    |%
    ++  four  (add 2 2)
    --

`add` is replaced by the Hoon compiler by the axis (against the current
subject). When the resulting nock is executed, we need `add` to be at that
axis. Our nock formula is only semantically valid when add is at that axis.
Fortunately, this is exactly what creating a core ensures - it's a way of
saying "this is what the subject is going to look like, minus my sample."

If you look at the way `hoon.hoon` is layed out, you'll see it creates a big
stack of cores. The context for each core is the stuff that this core is built
out of. In your hoon programs, you're building out of `hoon.hoon`,
`zuse.hoon`, and whatever libraries you tell `ford` to pull in. And it's all
conveniently located there at `+>`, in an orderly stack. Oh.

Okay, I lied.
-------------
The context isn't entirely static. If you look at the "engines" in `hoon.hoon`
(`by`, `in`, etc.) you see this pattern where we change samples and then call
cores that we produced against the changed sample. Many cores in our context
themselves have samples, and those samples are not "static" in the sense of
disambiguating the meaning of `(add 2 2)`. This concept is pretty much the
reason for the aforementioned "complicated machinery" of jets.

Static with holes
-----------------
If we're going to write some C code that matches the semantics of some nock,
we need to be clear about the semantics of that nock. Kicking something out of
the subject in a nock formula with `9` only has semantics against some
contexts - specifically the ones where the only things that are different
about the subject from where it was defined are *samples*, i.e. things that
are *supposed* to be different (`|_` and `|=` samples, etc).

So we don't jet nock formulas, we jet arms on cores. And when we hint those
cores with `~/` et. al, we give a "parent" axis -- the location, within the
core, of our parent in the jet tree.  We're giving the runtime exactly enough
information to nail down how the context must look for our jet to be valid. We
can change another part of the context (not a sample) and call our arm, and
the runtime will do the right thing and not run our jet.

Conclusion
----------
I really, really like this concept. I'm currently researching a partial
evaluator for urbit that will further exploit these concepts for JIT-compiling
faster arms. I'm very excited at the possibilities for speedup that this
elegant core structure enables. Spend some time thinking about it. It's
rewarding.
