---
type: post
date: ~2016.11.27..01.04.25..ffcf
title: A Small Urbit MUD
author: ~ponnys-podfer
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

A Small Urbit MUD
-----------------

I've spent the last month doing a fairly literal transliteration of half the [MangledMud][mm] source code from Ruby to Hoon, (and MangledMud was a translation of the original [TinyMUD][tm] from C to Ruby). The result is a working proof of concept MUD.

Also, special thanks to `~master-morzod` for his skeleton console app, and everyone in `urbit-meta` who answered questions.

*NOTE: If you login, please don't reuse a password. This is a literal translation of code from when everything on the Internet was plain-text by default; there is no hashing.*

You can log in by typing this into the `dojo`:

    |link ~ponnys-podfer %yint

Come to the Cozy Cave, have a cup of tea and say hi!

[mm]: https://github.com/mangled/MangledMud/
[tm]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TinyMUD

A Small Request
---------------

On the internet, it's easy for people who don't really care about a project to show up, make demands of the people actually doing the work, and disappear as they don't really care about what they are criticizing. I wrote this to show commitment; this prototype is a costly signal that I'm interested in the success of MUDs on the Urbit platform.

And thus I petition the King: **Please support at least 256 colors in terminal output.**

When this was brought up last time, I believe it was Curtis who said that the obvious purpose of such a feature was epic ASCII art. That's correct. To be competitive with some of the MUCKs and MUSHs that still exist, ASCII art is a necessity. This isn't needed *soon*, but I'd ask that you consider it before you freeze the vere/urbit interface.

Perhaps you want examples of what is possible? Rodamn's [Turkey][rodamn], Riay's [RockMan][riay] and Raven's [Kraken][raven] are all examples of high quality ASCII art which target the 256 color pallet.

These days, most terminals support xterm-256 mode, and detection is usually straightforward: just read the colors property from the terminfo, and use the corresponding setaf/setab sequences when setting colors. (Perhaps the correct thing to do is to ship the terminfo database from vere to the urbit ship, and move everything currently in `term.c` to within the urbit ship. This would allow over the air updates for future terminal enhancements, for example, a resurgence in popularity for VT340 [ReGIS][regis] or [Sixel][sixel] graphics.)

[rodamn]: http://ansiart.com/Info/Artist/rodamn/Turkey
[riay]: http://ansiart.com/Info/Artist/Riay/RockMan(MegaMan)
[raven]: http://ansiart.com/Info/Artist/Raven/Kraken

[regis]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ReGIS
[sixel]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sixel

A Long Term Vision
------------------

TinyMUD focuses on being as small as possible and lacks affordances that most players have come to expect in interactive fiction. It also harkens back to an era where people wrote custom licenses, so I'm unsure if I can actually release the code since a transliteration is pretty clearly a derivative work. (Which is fine since this was my first project in Hoon, and I'm pretty sure it won't compile with the reworked standard library on the cc-release branch.)

The real question for the future is: How do you reimagine a MUD as a first class Urbit application? I'm still working through some possible answers, but I want to make a high level sketch of what that looks like.

In the current world, you connect to a central server with telnet (or on Urbit, with `|link`). All your character data lives on this central server. Everything you build or do stays on that server. If you're using a system with a built in programming language like LambdaMOO, your programs reside purely on the server as part of a central database. Because the central server is responsible for storing all of a user's data, you as a user probably have a quota on how much you can build. You send the string representation of the command to the server which parses the string. The code that gets executed in response to your commands runs on the server...even if it's code you wrote. Any mail or messages you receive as your character stays entirely on the central server. And so on.

I'd like to move to a world where more of the MUD is pushed to the edges. The client and server should be the same urbit program. When you "log in," you're really telling the client to start acting like your character is awake again. When you build a room or write a small MUD program, the primary copy should be stored on your Urbit. Your character, your rooms and other objects should be stored versioned in the clay filesystem, both so you can see previous versions of your objects, and so you can reminisce in the future if the MUD ever shuts down. Since things you make are stored on your Urbit, quota restrictions can be eased or done away with altogether. Since your client is an active participant in the MUD network, you should be able to do first pass parsing on your Urbit. And since your persistent client is running on your urbit, it should be able to integrate new mail or private messages with the standard notification mechanisms.

In the above, I've totally hand-waved the hard technical problems of making a distributed database. (I quietly skipped where code gets executed since I'm not yet sure myself.) However, the above is where I want to end up in a year or two. My current rough plan is to start with [EtaMOO][etamoo] (a BSD-3 licensed implementation of LambdaMOO in Haskell), and see how much progress I can make.

[etamoo]: https://github.com/verement/etamoo
