---
type: post
date: ~2017.1.20..08.17.53..95a3
title: Keep your builds reproducible
author: ~maldeb-hapben
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

No one in the wider Urbit community has yet come up with an unreproducible branch - most work is not at the level of vere/arvo coupling, and the few who have ventured in there have left sufficient documentation of their passage to reconstruct it. However, demand has spread for more guidance on how to arrange one's patches.

The way to ensure your patches are reproducible is to have commits that correspond to each other, and to document your build in the commit messages. Here's an example. On a work-in-progress branch, I've added a card, %dirk, and changed another, %hill. How would I commit this? Consider these (excerpts from) commit diffs that add %dirk.

http://pastebin.com/6gmX9sgk - arvo
http://pastebin.com/S3VtvaCv - vere

Arvo and vere versions can usually float around, but this is a synchronization point - both need to either be before this commit, or after it. The way I recommend doing it is in the commit message - [branch-name:1] in front is what I've been using, and then special build instructions in the extended commit message. It would be good to standardize on some format like that, because then we can tell things like automated test and build servers about it. However, the build instructions have to be written in English - if it's not the default "use previous kernel to compile a new kernel when the kernel changes", only the developer knows that. If you do something more complex, it can be nice to attach the pills to your pull requests, but what's important is that I can make them myself from reading the commit message.

If you haven't done anything requiring synchronization, your synchronization state is "master:1" right now, and it'll be "master:2" when the next synchronized change is merged. (Hopefully, it'll be the clay one excerpted above.)

The only difference here from what everyone already did naturally is using some standard machine-readable format. I really want/need a build server for kernels, which is why I'm thinking of machine readability.