---
type: post
date: ~2017.5.22..23.06.51..9394
title: Urbit's technology and its use case
author: ~sorreg-namtyv
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

From [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/urbit/comments/6c965a/understanding_urbit_what_value_does_the/):

> First off, excited to be here. Please point me to existing resources or another forum if this has already been answered or there is a better place to ask. I've been sporadically lurking Urbit docs for something like a year now and slowly getting familiar. I still have noob level understanding of nock which I'm really looking forward to upgrade soon when I have a few days to throw at it. I am sold on the idea of a personal server. Right now I am trying to consolidate my understanding of the technology and the product.
>
> My specific question is: what properties does urbit have that traditional VMs do not that makes people confident it greatly simplifies personal server management beyond the difficulty of administering a Linux box on EC2? My best understanding right now is that urbit's property of being closer to an inanimate object than livestock (I read that somewhere and like the analogy) allows the instance to be stopped (?rewinded), and moved between hosts easily. However other VMs can be stopped and moved. Is it simply a matter of HOW easily urbit allows this to happen? Is there some operation that would be useful to perform on an instance for simple personal server management that is totally foreign to traditional VMs that urbit allows? From my limited understanding it seems like the security wins derived from the instance becoming less "animate" could be pretty big, maybe this is a big part of management overhead that is lifted? I understand the value in the limited namespace paradigm, is there any fundamental reason urbit is needed for this? It seems like this might be implemented on a unix server. Finally I also realize that the instance can update itself through the network which would cut down on administration overhead and that this is probably fundamentally tied to the technology.
I guess what I am looking for is a set of triples each element of the form: 1) Annoying system administration problem requiring a relatively manual solution that my Dad will never care about or be able to solve 2) How urbit solves the problem 3) What about the design of urbit (and eventually moving down the stack far enough, nock) allows urbit to solve the problem
>
> Ok, cool. Just writing this was clarifying. I realize I need to learn more about nock/hoon/arvo, and that this might be a large part of why I am confused. If you must RTFM me, so be it. Any help is greatly appreciated.

Reply:

This is a great question.  In general the answer is "no single thing" -- there is not one large problem which causes Unix to be unmanageable as a personal server, even though everyone knows it is unmanageable.  More broadly, when you look at what causes the profession of "system administrator" to exist, it is not one big problem that sysadmins or SREs spend their day solving, but an enormous variety of little problems.

As a concrete example: an EC2 VM is not suitable as a personal server, simply because Amazon can and does reboot your VM at any time.  The existing architecture of Web server infrastructure has settled on a "12-factor" design which assumes that storage and computation live on different nodes, and computation nodes are ephemeral and disposable.

It might be possible to build a service that made a non-ephemeral VM with five nines of reliability.  But (a) it would be kind of a horror show, and (b) it is pushing these systems farther and farther away from what they're designed to be.

Sandstorm, for instance, is/was a system (the company failed, the project is still ongoing AFAIK) building personal servers on VMs.  But your Sandstorm VM isn't really persistent.  No, it needs a separate backup service.  Well, you don't have a backup unless you've done a restore... and so on.

The reason system administration as a profession exists, and the reason we think of a modern server as an industrial tool which requires a professional operator, is basically the sum of a bunch of these kinds of little infelicities.  They've accumulated across many years, as a system designed for one purpose (a multiuser minicomputer) was adapted to meet a very different niche.

It's very difficult to go backward and correct all these little problems in the old world.  Some of them, like being a two-level store, are very hard to fix.  

Another example of a hard-to-fix problem would be updating user-level apps in Unix, especially if there is important data in RAM.  (And there's a reason why your EC2 instance doesn't auto-update at all.)  In some cases, these problems are solvable, but only with rocket science PhD thesis type work.  And.. there's a lot of them.