---
type: post
date: ~2017.10.17..04.09.16..7eb8
title: Thoughts for New Libraries
author: ~littel-ponnys
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Over the last few months, I've toyed with replacing parts of `%/sys/hoon.hoon` with a new implementation of basic containers, porting analogues of Haskell's `Data.List`, `Data.Either`, `Data.Maybe` and `Data.Map.Strict`. Now that I have [a complete prototype of those data structures][prototype], I want to get some consensus on the style I've come up with before I continue porting more of the standard library and before I push for this to replace parts of `hoon.hoon`.

This should be read as more of a report on my opinions instead of What Is True™.

[prototype]: https://github.com/eglaysher/arvo/blob/new-stdlib/lib/new-hoon.hoon

## Names and Identifiers

I've written more Hoon code than anyone outside of Tlon and over the course of using Hoon for a year, I have not been able to get used to the naming scheme. I have not been able to reliably memorize arbitrary words that are semantically detached from their function. I consider this the biggest issue to adoption.

One of the justifications I've heard for the four letter identifier names is that you can fit four 7-bit ASCII characters and a tag bit into a single 32-bit integer. In vere, any atom larger a single 31-bit integer gets passed to the bignum library (with the 32nd bit being used to determine whether the number is an integer or a bignum). The entire thing strikes me as a premature optimization. But if you used 64-bit integers instead, you could store 9 7-bit ASCII characters plus tag bit, or 10 6-bit characters plus tag bit. (Sadly, a `++term` can be any of 37 symbols so no 5-bit characters for us!)

(Creating a 6-bit representation would both be additional work and would break the ability to cast arbitrary 7-bit ASCII strings to `%terms`. So at least for now, I'm going to assume a mere 9 characters in 7-bit ASCII.)

9 characters is plenty to work with for descriptive names. So the first principle of our library is to use names which have a semantic connection to what the arm does. The average person has a web of semantic context built up over decades; not leveraging this is wasteful.

Good:  `++map`, `++to-upper`
  
Bad:  `++turn`, `++cuss`

## The Lack Of Overloading In Hoon

Hoon's design philosophy focuses on simplicity and predictability, under the idea that simple algorithms the user can understand are both faster to execute and are easier to use than magic primitives that one can not reason about.

The symbol lookup is a mere tree walk of the subject. This is the simplest usable symbol resolution algorithm, but it does mean that there's no real way to do function overloading in Hoon--there is no way to have multiple `++map` gates which are chosen between by argument type.

That's a problem because you're going to want to have a `++map` operation on lots of different data structures. Lists, sets, dictionaries...almost every data structure will want to define an operation which takes a gate and applies it to each value in the data structure. Therefore, you can't just have a `++map` gate; what data structure gets to own that name?

This isn't a problem in a system with function overloading in which `(map <list instance>)` and `(map <dictionary instance>)` resolve to different functions. Nor is it a problem where names are entirely arbitrary and incomprehensible.

I believe the correct compromise solution is to have a per-data structure core with no sample which acts as a toplevel namespace:

```
|%
:>  list gates
++  ls
  |%
  ++  map
    [...]
  --
::
:>  dictionary gates
++  dct
  |%
  ++  map
    [...]
  --
--
```

and invoked with:

```
> (map:ls [1 2 3 4 ~] |=(a/@ (add 1 a)))
[2 3 4 5 ~]
```

In context, simple namespace gates can be used with `=,` which puts something into the subject, allowing list heavy code to just state `=,  ls` once at the top of a twig tree and then omit the `:ls`.

One might wonder why the toplevel namespace core should have no sample. The current Hoon standard library uses doors (cores with sample) for the `++by` (map data structure) and `++in` (set data structure). These aren't used as stateful cores though; actually using stateful cores for general things have some issues.

## Principles of Gate Arguments

From the above, we can state a few principles for convenient gates in Hoon:

### 1) Prefer not using doors for generic data structures.

C++ provides a vector<> template. Java provides a dizzying array of interfaces which implement Array. These other languages combine data and operations on the data.

You could theoretically replicate that pattern in Hoon, using doors as objects:

```
|_  a/(list)
++  push
  |=  b/*
  +>.$(a [b a])
--
```

and used like this:

```
=.  a  (push:a 1)
=.  a  (push:a 2)
```

Don't do that in low level libraries in Hoon. General code should be pure data. Imagine you're writing a `%gall` app, and are using a door based list for state:

```
|_  {hid/bowl a/(list @ud)}
++  poke
  |=  in/@
  ^-  {(list move) _+>.$}
  =.  a  (push:a in)
  [~ +>.$]
--
```

If a stateful core is put in your `%gall` app state, how do you handle upgrades? While you previously didn't have to care, you now have to remember to do some sort of upgrade step during `++prep`. This is a footgun. The same issue comes up with marks.

### 2) When possible, make gates binary functions.

Hoon has the wonderful `;:` rune, which turns any binary function into an n-ary function. Embrace this:

```
:(weld:ls [1 2 3 ~] [4 5 6 ~] [7 8 9 ~] [10 11 12 ~])
```

Sometimes you'll want a second gate which takes its arguments as a list and that's fine! My prototype stdlib has a `++concat:ls` which is the list version of `++weld:ls`. Just provide the `;:` version if possible.

### 3) When possible, gates which take a gate as an argument should take it as their last argument.

Haskell functions that take functions tend to take it as the first argument because Haskell is designed around currying. Hoon is not designed around currying; one of the design goals was to make long functions flow down. For example:

```
|_  a/(list @u)
++  all-over-five
  %+  all:ls  a
  |=  v/@u
  (gth v 5)
```

The gate passed to `++all:ls` is fairly trivial, but it could be arbitrarily long and that would be fine because it is last. In the first pass, one of the few modifications I made from a straight conversion of Haskell's functions was to move gates as arguments to the end.