---
type: post
date: ~2017.9.11..02.24.22..d677
title: A newbie does Urbytes
author: ~silmud-rampel
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I’ve been going through the Urbytes thing and following along. I tripped over the wording on a couple things and started to get seriously bogged down in Urbyte 2. I’m posting here with an eye to making the documentation clearer for other people who might be as easily confused as I am.

The numbers in the headers refer to the Urbyte number. It just so happens that I’ve got one point of confusion per Urbyte.


## 0: Oh — “in” as in “You’ve got a friend in me”

> You now have an Urbit image, or pier, in the mycomet directory. Right now the only thing in your pier is Urbit's system files:

This was mildly confusing. I wasn’t sure if the pier was `mycomet/` or `mycomet/.urb/`. 


## 1: Are auras flavors?

> But the product of `add` is a flavorless atom with no aura, `@`.

Is ‘flavorless’ a technical term? I thought it might have been. Perhaps “But the product of `add` is an atom with no aura, `@`.” would be clearer.

Also, now that I think about it, it might be helpful to point out that “the thing that `(add 2 2)` evaluates to” is a `product`, complete with italics.  Normally I expect added-together things to be called sums; turns out, `product` is an Urbit-specific technical term here. Some kind of explicit “this is actually a technical term despite math terminology” signposting would have been helpful.


## 2: What’s a “surface fragment”?

In “The search algorithm” I stumbled over “an expression which uses a label can't know whether the subject will resolve it to a surface fragment (a leg) or to an arm”. 

I went back and forth and remembered that a _surface_ is a label like “x”, “y”, or “p” that one can use to refer to all sorts of different subnouns of a noun. Actually, that’s wrong. A _wing_, composed of one or more _limbs_, is how you specify a surface, at least when you want to refer to some part of a noun. A _fragment_, is what a surface refers to? Or a surface fragment is some noun that a surface refers to?

I think I’m kind of stuck here. I want to get these concepts down before moving on to finish Urbyte 3.