---
type: post
date: ~2017.3.4..02.50.15..10d2
title: improved addition in nock
author: ~taglux-nidsep
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

In my last two posts, I went through addition and multiplication in nock.  Unfortunately, the nock programs I wrote aren't "portable", i.e., they aren't designed to be used as subroutines in a larger program.  To make "call"-able nock functions, we need to do a little more work.  For an explanation of the kind of work needed,  see this old nock documentation:

https://github.com/urbit/old-urbit.org/blob/master/doc/nock/tut/3.md

(This doc was suggested to me in a previous thread.)

Following the basic strategy of that document, here is an improved version of addition.

Addition:

The algorithm is the same as before.  We pass a tuple of unsigned integers [N1 N2] to the function and we want the sum.  We'll need a variable k as a counter, and a loop (pseudocode):

1.  k = 0
2. If k = N2 then return N1.
3. Else add 1 to k, add 1 to N1, and Goto 2.

To start:

[8 GB1 w]

GB1 is a formula that we can turn into a "gate", which is what we'll call when we want to add.  A "gate" is a core with only one arm, i.e., one formula in the battery.  Remember that a core is a tuple whose left is the battery and whose right is the payload: [battery payload].

GB1 will have the above algorithm programmed into it, and is going to be the part we can cut and paste into larger programs.  Our initial subject was [N1 N2], but now it's [GB1* [N1 N2]].  (The "*" indicates that GB1 has been modified by having had the initial subject passed to it.)  

Because this is a simple addition function, 'w' will simply produce a gate from GB1* and call it.

First, here is GB1:

[[1 [1 [6 a b c]] [1 0] [0 1]] [1 0]]

So, our subject [GB1* [N1 N2]] = [[[[1 [6 a b c]] [1 0] [0 1]] 0] [N1 N2]]

[6 a b c] corresponds to lines 2 and 3 of the algorithm above.  [1 0] is for our counter. 

We don't yet have a gate in our subject, so we can't call it without more work.

w:

[8 [9 2 [0 2]] v]

We'll call the addition function in 'v', but first we have to create a gate and add it to our subject.  So we take [0 2] of our current subject, [[[1 [6 a b c]] [1 0] [0 1]] 0], and pass it to [0 2] of that, [[1 [6 a b c]] [1 0] [0 1]].

Hence, the result of [9 2 [0 2]] is:  [[6 a b c] [0 z]], where z = [[[1 [6 a b c]] [1 0] [0 1]] 0].

So the whole subject getting passed to v is:  [[[6 a b c] [0 z]] [z [N1 N2]]]

We now have our addition gate, and we are free to call it.  But you might be asking why we went to all this trouble.  Surely there are easier ways of skinning this cat!  But easier isn't always better---notice that we've added a gate to our subject without losing GB1*.  It's still in there, in z.  "Addition" is a simple program, so it has only one function; but if we wanted to have several functions residing in z, waiting to be called later, we could.  In future programs, we will.

By convention, we will call gates by passing a subject of the form:

[[gate] [[argument(s)] [context]]]

The gate is the battery, and the latter two are the payload.  The arguments are that which is acted upon by the function; so in our case, [N1 N2].  And the context is all other data/code we want to hang onto.

Hence, v:

[9 2 [[0 4] [0 7] [0 5]]]

[0 4] = [6 a b c],
[0 7] = [N1 N2],
and [0 5] = [0 z],

So, the new subject is: [[6 a b c] [[N1 N2] [0 z]]]

...and we pass it to [6 a b c].

(Remember that the '0', at address # 14, is our counter, k.)

Now we need to figure out what a, b, and c are.

a, 'if k = N2':

[5 [0 13] [0 14]]

b, 'return N1':

[0 12]

c, 'otherwise, add 1 to N1, add 1 to k, and loop':

[9 2 [[0 2] [[4 [0 12]] [0 13]] e]]

Here we are calling the addition gate again (this is the loop), but adding 1 to N1 ('[4 [0 12]]') and adding 1 to k... oh yeah, e:

[[4 [0 14]] [0 15]]

That's it!  Here's the whole program with the substitutions made:

[8 [[1 [1 [6 [5 [0 13] [0 14]] [0 12] [9 2 [[0 2] [[4 [0 12]] [0 13]] [[4 [0 14]] [0 15]]]]]] [1 0] [0 1]] [1 0]] [8 [9 2 [0 2]] [9 2 [[0 4] [0 7] [0 5]]]]]

And a slightly more readable version:

    [ 8
          [ [ 1
              [1 6 [5 [0 13] 0 14] [0 12] 9 2 [0 2] [[4 0 12] 0 13] [4 0 14] 0 15]
              [1 0]
              [0 1]
            ]
            [1 0]
          ]
       [ 8
          [9 2 0 2]
          [9 2 [[0 4] [0 7] [0 5]]]
       ]
     ]

To add 23 and 45, enter the following in dojo:

.*([23 45] [8 [[1 [1 [6 [5 [0 13] [0 14]] [0 12] [9 2 [[0 2] [[4 [0 12]] [0 13]] [[4 [0 14]] [0 15]]]]]] [1 0] [0 1]] [1 0]] [8 [9 2 [0 2]] [9 2 [[0 4] [0 7] [0 5]]]]])

You'll get 68.  Great!

Or you could just enter:

(add 23 45)

...but that just isn't as much fun.
