---
type: post
date: ~2018.3.23..03.42.41..ab6d
title: The Urbit public record [draft]
author: ~ravmel-ropdyl
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

> Note
> 
> This is something we have been discussing internally that seemed worth sharing publicly. 
> It'll probably eventually get edited into an actual blog post — but why wait? 
> `- ravmel-ropdyl`

Urbit already has a minimal consensus: its constitution, which stores the Urbit network's address-space registry and public-key infrastructure, and defines a simple decision-making process.

The Urbit constitution will be launched on Ethereum. Using the strongest existing computational blockchain feels like the right way to bootstrap a consensus as of early 2018. 

Urbit's long-term goal is to migrate to its own consensus: the Urbit public record. Since we're already maintaining a land registry, it seems straightforward to add other simple tools.

## Inherent stake and the liturgy system

From a consensus perspective, the hierarchical structure of the Urbit network is a system of "inherent stake." 

We believe it's possible, even easy, to maintain a high-trust network if every actor on the network has an inherent economic incentive to cooperate honestly. This is especially true of galaxies and stars, whose owners have an inherent financial interest in the product of two variables: (a) Urbit's network effect; and (b) their own reputations within Urbit. 

Because they desire to maximize the variables (a) and (b), inherent stakeholders can be expected to display a strong motivated aversion against any abuse of the Urbit network, or any action that might tarnish their own reputations on Urbit. 

And the stake follows the property. Even if a galaxy is stolen by a bad actor, the bad actor has every incentive to either go legit, or (more likely) resell the ship to a good actor who's willing to pay a ransom. There is no escaping the positive incentive.

The positive incentives in inherent stake are strong enough that the players are not just unlikely to abuse the network -- but likely to voluntarily support and defend it. In the Greco-Roman world, politicians themselves often paid the costs of governance. Their contributions were called "liturgies." 

A high-trust network does not need a strong solution to Byzantine agreement. It only needs a weak solution to Byzantine agreement. When there is no economic incentive to defect, only madmen and incompetents will defect, not coalitions of rational actors. Because strong consensus solutions are so much more expensive than weak ones, we think an inherent-stake network can easily support a very competitive public consensus engine.

We think any new public consensus should be (a) bootstrapped on an existing computational blockchain, and (b) once it launches independently, operate as a pure liturgy, without any fee or token. It's hard to compete with free.

## The Urbit public record

The Urbit public record starts as the Urbit address-space registry, PKI and governance mechanism. Now, we extend it with minimal identity and reputation tools.

The Urbit public record is not a computational blockchain -- at least, not now or any time soon. Because its functions are hardcoded, they need to be chosen with considerable care.

And we must always question why any data on the public record needs to be a consensus, not just shared one-to-one. 

Data on the public record should be (a) small, (b) public, (c) frequently aggregated (for constructing indexes, etc), and (d) important.

## Minimalist reputation: censure/forgive.

To `censure` another ship is just a public declaration of disapproval. The censure graph has no mechanical effect. It just tells the world who doesn't like whom. By definition, a censure is an accusation of abusing the Urbit network. Of course, this accusation may be totally false.

A censure is permanent until withdrawn -- if you are subsequently satisfied, you can `forgive`. You may censure at most 16 ships at a time. Only stars or galaxies can censure stars; only galaxies can censure other galaxies.

It must be emphasized that the censure graph is not a reputation agency. It is one piece of data from which a reputation agency might work. There is no mechanical substitute for reasonable human governance. Rather, reasonable governance should grow organically around this raw data.

A very simple, negative-only reputation system is ideal for a high-trust network that should remain a high-trust network. Abusers are exceptions; exceptions require action. Good users are the common case; the common case should require no action.

Why should censure information go on the public record? Because it's (a) small (there are not a lot of censures), (b) public (the whole point of a censure is a public condemnation), (c) aggregated (in any reputation service), and (d) important.

## Minimalist identity: claim/disclaim and endorse/disown.

An identity assertion tells the public that your ship claims some *public distinction*. A distinction can be any attribute, title, credential, right, property, description, etc. You can claim at most 16 distinctions at a time.

A distinction may be exclusive (like the ownership of a land parcel or a Twitter address), or inclusive (like US citizenship). The assertion transaction that registers it may contain computational evidence (like ownership of a Bitcoin address), may require external evidence that can be proven automatically (like a Keybase style security assertion), or may require manual verification (like US citizenship).

An assertion has three parts: a protocol (like "twitter"), a claim defined by this protocol (like "I own @urbit"), and a dossier (any evidence that substantiates the claim). As far as the contract is concerned, the protocol and claim are just strings, and the dossier (if any) is just a bitstream.

(We don't need to define any of these protocols yet. Standardization is important, but out of scope for the contract implementation.)

Some claims (like identifying as a Republican) require no evidence. Others (like "I own the Twitter account @urbit") cannot be proved by any self-validating statement. 

Therefore, other ships need to be able to endorse claims (and revoke their own endorsements). Defining what endorsements mean, whose endorsement is necessary to confirm a claim, is out of scope for the contract implementations -- as with censures, anyone can see the data and interpret it for themselves.

Only stars and galaxies can endorse claims by planets. Only galaxies can endorse claims by stars.

Why do identity assertions need to be on a consensus record? Even if they're public, couldn't they just be peer-to-peer? They remain small, public, and important; and in particular, aggregating applications need to be able to handle them without handling the tricky error cases that arise when different distinctions are broadcast in different directions. 
