## `~mastyr-harlud`
This is fantastic. There are many exciting features planned for dd-release, but I'm most personally interested in:

The new security masks are respected across all vanes. The revision-control system %clay has permission masks. Untrusted code can be installed as a gateway to a foreign service with same-origin network permissions.

Recently on `:talk`, I asked Galen whether or not it's possible to manage documents on `tree` collaboratively, a-la Google Docs. While the answer is currently no, he informed me that the major barrier to such functionality is implementation of permissions on `%clay`. This feature alone, along with the updated `%clay` infrastructure underneath (which of course will enable many more features than the Google Docs style document editing mentioned above), would be a huge step towards Urbit's MVP status.

Now, having been recently persuaded by Urbit's mission in general, I am searching for a reasonably-sized contribution I can make not only out of passion for the project but also as a potential M.S. project I could present to peers, faculty, and advisors at my university. I believe the implementation of `%clay` permissions might be the right one. 

Let this post serve as simply a declaration of intention. I am of course likely many hours away from understanding how `%clay` currently works and many more hours away from completing (or understanding) how permissions should be added. Any and all insight on this topic is greatly welcomed; I'm sure there are a number of resources already published which I need to read. However, I intend to begin with the source code.

Thanks for the update, and Godspeed. 
