## `~pittyp-datfyn`
>  It's unclear to me what analogue they [rebases] might have in %clay.

The way to construct historical narratives out of append-only commits is to work on a `%featurefoo-wip` desk, annotating squashes etc. you want to perform as you go(perhaps via `%featurefoo-randomhash` desks), and then publishing the resulting sequence as `%featurefoo` when it is deemed complete. At the extreme, there may be room for a higher "cleaned up patch series" layer, as per <http://akkartik.name/post/wart-layers>.

> `Makefile`, `.gitignore`, and `.jshintrc`

I suppose a `symlinks.clayconfig` would be out of the question?

> MIME type specializations ... marks seen as bound namespace prefixes

Something like `foo-bar-generic-type--specific-use-case`(`text--json--hal`) would make sense yeah, though I have concerns that the lengths would get unwieldy. Which I suppose is the "extreme" of fully qualified mark paths you are referring to.

> I can't speak for the long-term tractability of two-way sync, but, boy, is it brain-dead easy to use.

+1

This is informed by everybody already knowing how to use filesystems already, but: I am highly skeptical of "we'll build a unix interface that's almost a file system, except read and write go through two completely different UIs, and names are mangled because we want dirty unix data contaminating pure clay data to be a manual, inconvenient action". The dropbox metaphor isn't _perfect_, especially when there are edge cases we can't cover(I'm pretty sure the reflux bug is just a bug, though), but "sometimes the system does something weird and confusing" is miles ahead of "trying to use it at all is weird and confusing".

> a magic `%head` label

Labels are immutable; in general, the reason you need `(scot %da now)` in every path is that you actually need `now` if you want to do a time-variant calculation.

Personally, I think there's space for some syntax sugar where `/===` does what you want it to in apps(namely, expanding to `/<our.hid>/[q.byk.hid]/<now.hid>` or such), but on the os interface level, one of the core promises of clay is "a path always refers to the same thing".