## `~sorreg-namtyv`
#### continued

#### queries and indices

I agree with all this -- it's a wide-open field.  I would add that there's an interesting relationship between true queries and the mere namespace.  A query is functional, of course, and so is our namespace.  One way we haven't yet deployed the power of %ford is to use it for a purely functional `.^(%f ...)` namespace.  Of course, fitting a query into a textual path is tricky...

One simple case of this is exporting a functional namespace from a hierarchical file format, eg, essentially automounting a .tgz.

#### paths

Sack?  Dime?  I get the idea you're trying to make some sort of off-color joke here, young person.  Urbit is very serious research and we don't toke well to this sort of thing.

#### marks

In a way you answer your own question here by diving into the rathole of what beak (`[ship desk case]') a mark lives in.  Your answer: it is dark, swampy, and full of rats.  This is indeed the general character of a rathole and should be your first cue to back out the way you came in.

Generally speaking, a mark is a formal description of data in transit between two separate entities.  It could be temporal transit in a filesystem, or network transit over the wire.  Let's call the "mark discipline" the system that, for all possible marks, maps the name of a mark to its semantics.  This is obviously equivalent to the beak that contains the mark's source.

For mere storage, we can impose a single mark discipline on the desk.  Problem solved.  As I said in the original document, the mark discipline of a desk probably shouldn't be the desk itself in most cases.  You initialize any desk by merging a parent desk; the parent's discipline should just be inherited (and updated, presumably, in a new merge).

When data is on the wire, we have *no alternative* but to work with (a) the name of the mark, (b) the data itself, (c) the receiver's mark discipline.  In particular, *the sender's mark discipline is totally irrelevant*.  Even if we knew the sender and receiver had the same disciplines, perhaps the sender is hacked to send bad data.

Do you want the whole world to be using one standard discipline?  Of course -- you want an Urbit version of IANA, which everyone syncs everything to.  At first, we have such a thing, which is us.  We'll see how that ages.  If there is one standard discipline, or at least a name allocation system, there will never be any conflicts or collisions.  I can't see any practical obstacles to this, besides mere human orneriness.

But mere human orneriness is a thing.  So, when people butt heads, you'll get incompatibilities.  In theory we could download the sender's discipline and check that the data was valid on the sender's side -- it is possible to safely run other people's code -- but what would we do with this information? Nothing useful that I can think of.  So it's still a rathole.
