## `~pittyp-datfyn`
Other off-the-cuff idea:

Each app lives on its own desk, `%home` fans out to all of them via directory-whitelist sync. This lets us reinstate crash-bad-merge semantics, and have app-specific mark updates stay orthogonal instead of reloading everything.

Another consequence is that any remote poke/diff has to be in the app desk's mar/, which is probably a net benefit but does verge into "external header files". 

## Todo

- how does arvo fit into this? Presumably we'd want all the apps to have a correct arvo merged, including an old one if the new merge makes the app not compile(/ probably more frequently, keeps the app noncompiling).
- how are the depended files specified? The base case is something like `/=home=/*/{*.*,$app/**}`, but that sounds likely to miss library dependencies and such. Having some sort of (list path) in a file under app/foo seems a hassle to maintain, doing ford dependency walking is probably too magic. Maybe just grab all of lib/ and sur/ and let ford sort the irrelevant ones out?
- if an application writes a file to its own desk, that may be more difficult to retrieve than when "its own desk" is always %home. Not too worried about this, as
  + the clay-interfacing applications we have rn are :dojo, which writes files wherever but defaults to /=home=, and /+write, which saves markdown "wherever eyre can see it" i.e. also /=home= atm
  + syncing the app desks back into home probably wouldn't cause any problems, as long as they're staying within their own namespaces in those desks
- sec/ drivers still run off /=home= presumably, this would make them even more of an implicit dependency than they already are