## `~sorreg-namtyv`
I've obviously thought a lot about this question in designing the system.  My general perspective is that probably there will be a right time to do this, but it's not quite yet.

There is certainly a horseless-carriage aspect to the separation between "app state" and "filesystem."  These are all just nouns, after all!  Is Urbit imitating 20th-century computing here?

I think my major practical difficulty with doing something like this *now* is that I feel the mark story remains dangerously immature.  Especially when it comes to revisions.  I'm simply not sure we are ready for every application to store its state against a series of mark revisions.  The architecture is barely robust enough for its present purpose.

Also, we try not to imitate 20th-century computing but we do try to learn from it.  There's an extremely delicate balance between these two.  There's a sense in which the in-memory cores of applications are different from files in a filesystem, simply because DRAM and spinning rust have different latency and persistence parameters.  But there's also a sense in which it's very natural to manage "working memory" and "archival memory" in different ways.

And it is necessary to run real applications right now, without saddling them with the need to model every state change as an invertible patch.  It is also nice for them to be able to delete data, etc.  Apps are basically actors without spawning privileges (to keep the user from having to manage a process table).  This programming model is quite well understood.

I will often step past the well-understood solution on the table and go into the unknown, but I will only do this if I feel I have an "edge" on the unknown, a very clear idea what I'm looking for there, and an alarm that will ring if I spend too long groping around in the void.

Essentially, once Urbit's capability of managing data has evolved beyond trivial document types, it certainly looks interesting to drive whole application states into %clay.  But I also feel this can wait until the solution for simpler documents and databases is quite a bit more mature.  It would be pushing `%clay` (why wouldn't you use `%clay` at this point?) very hard -- first it needs to be pushed moderately, then pushed hard, then pushed very hard.

At a certain level, the common case of `%gall` is a corner case of `%clay`.  But I would rather not design `%clay` around one of its corner cases.  "Hard cases make bad law."  Corner cases should be avoided in an immature system, and `%clay` is unfortunately one of our more immature systems.  Even if you solve this case of revision control in a separate vane, you're still paying undue attention to a `%clay` corner case.  Let's figure out the law, then solve the hard cases.

I actually had a much dumber idea for making `%gall` more transparent: just turn the scry path into a wing.  So for `/gx/=/app/now/foo/bar/baz`, just evaluate baz.bar.foo against the `:app` vase.  Of course it only fetches in the now, but it requires no handlers, etc.  Also works well with decorated data.

(`%gall` definitely needs a stronger connection between its subscriptions and its namespace...)