## `~ravmel-ropdyl`
These are really, really nice to see.  So far, I’ve basically just generated all the aesthetics of Urbit myself.  It’s kind of a relief to see that someone else can pretty easily pick it up and get going.  You’ve clearly put some thought into all this, which I really appreciate.

The mobile mockups are really close to what I was imagining.  And, as I think we discussed briefly in person, degrade as easily as I had hoped.  The example app designs are most interesting to me.  Diving in:

The first thought that I have looking at these is that we really need both a style guide and CSS implementation of it.  Not because you’re breaking any rules per se (in some cases you’re coming up with good stuff) — but because we need some reference implementation to continuously improve.  (That doesn’t mean everything has to conform to it.)

As individual app examples these are basically great.  No complaints.  But: I’m too  distracted by the fact that we’re jumping over the first step of making a style guide.  So, let’s just say you’re asserting your own style guide here and I’ll give some specific feedback:

- I (probably obviously) love the idea of brandless interfaces.  Then, shouldn’t the logo not be in the top left?  I’ve actually always had mixed feelings about making the logo anything more than simply the character `~`.  It’s just part of @p.  It also looks like a wave and reminds me of the sea.  Urbit is kind of a sea.  Anyway, I don’t think this is necessary.  
- You could leave the app name somehow — but it needs to feel a bit more anchored.  Because your main elements are centered, the top-left element feels orphaned.
- In Feed: where do the colors come from?  Are they set by the user?  I think maybe the circles should be a bit smaller, or need to feel proportional to the line size.  
- In Feed: The overlap of the Send button and the first post is really confusing.  Gotta space that out.
- The rhythm and spacing of the type doesn’t feel quite right, but I can’t really put my finger on it.  In general, I feel like things could be given a little room to breathe.  In general, I think items want to be given more whitespace above — such that your horizontal rules aren’t centered between items.  This is true in both Feed and Link.
- In Link, I’d try to make the baseline grid pretty coarse.  Say, 12px, and then make everything correspond to that grid.  Right now I see 35, 18, 24, 18 — which is a perfectly fine scale (although shouldn’t it be 36?) — but since we’re on the web they make for a non-coincident grid of items.
- The contrast between type and individual elements doesn’t feel high enough.  This could just mean using heavier weights and thicker borders in your buttons.

Somewhat unrelated to the specific designs: I’d really love it if we could make all of the design work that goes into Urbit public.  This sets a really nice example toward that end.  I don’t think it’s practical to let the public critique work in progress — but I think it’s an interesting constraint to release all of the notes, drafts, sketches and mockups that go into any final product.  I’ve certainly always wished that this could happen for existing products.  (Can you imagine if Apple did this?  It’d change the process completely.  I don’t think it’s simply a loss of control, either.  I think designers can be transparent about their process and not have to answer for every individual decision.)

Aside from the aesthetics, the other ideas you bring up here are fantastic.  The idea behind these example apps was to compile an examples library that was both nice to look at *and* complete.  Slides, Notes, Events, Bookmarks — we should really do all of these.

As a related aside:

I’ve started to think that there might be an intermediate stage between here and a friendly console that we ought to aim for in the very near term.  Urbit’s web UIs are sorely in need of a refresh — and I think a style guide / base CSS is sort of a needed component of that project.  I can post a bit more about this once I’ve advanced my own thinking on it a bit.  

