## `~barpub-tarber`
There are three ways a system may be rendered resistant to all further changes.  

The first we should call fossilization. That is what happened to IP, XML, and JSON. IPv4 shares a name and function with IPv6, but nothing else. It's when there are so many producers and consumers of the standard that reaching a consensus on changes is impossible. It's been instructive to watch the evolution of Bitcoin with this in mind; the relative ease with which Ethereum incorporates changes, and the great difficulty in Bitcoin, are social, not technical. In honor of Dr. Knuth, these should be considered as irrational numbers, starting with whichever version of the spec was released before real change became impossible. That's not entirely fair to Dr. Knuth, because his process of halting changes to TeX was deliberate, but it will do.

The problem with fossilization is that any bugs are also turned to stone. Duplicate keys in your JSON object? You're on your own. Mr. Crockford refused to put comments in JSON, on the grounds that they would be used to extend the system in incompatible directions. While this was canny, the result is that such extensions aren't called JSON, not that the hair refused to grow on the substrate. 

Crystallization is producing something self-evidently perfect which admits no further change. This is characteristic of mathematics, and the highest level of natural philosophy. The paradigm case is the Elements of Euclid.  

Geometry and the Elements were synonymous for millennia. Geometry is one of the quadrivium, the four subjects studied once the trivium are mastered, or at least learned. The trivium are grammar, logic, and rhetoric; one need only compare the word 'trivial' as used in mathematics with its common parlance to realize that these subjects remain fundamental. 

Because history is no longer commonly taught, allow me to place Euclid in historical context. Socrates taught Plato, who was the tutor of Aristotle, who was in turn the tutor of Alexander the Great. He proceeded to conquer a great part of the known world, as known by Greeks. One of his generals, Ptolemy, became the ruler of Egypt, and it is from this court that the Elements emerged. 

I happen to believe that Euclid was a pseudonym, and that the Elements were the secret doctrines of the Pythagoreans, made public because the subjugation of Egypt and Persia meant it was safe to do so. Regardless, it was more than two thousand years before coherent alternatives to the parallel postulate were advanced, and shortly thereafter that one man, Albert Einstein, demonstrated that the Universe we live in is not bound by the laws of Euclidean geometry. 

Crystallization in the realm of ideas will always have aspects which are arbitrary. F = ma could be Q = zx, if Newton spoke a different language. It is tradition to nominate these arbitrary aspects in the style of the mathematician who discovered the timeless truth in question. But it is by no means always clear which aspects are arbitrary and which are not. Leibniz's notation for calculus is more expressive and powerful than Newton's, and has for the most part displaced it, despite the rancorous dispute of priority being resolved (mostly) in Newton's favor. 

Which brings us to our third technique, freezing. It is fair to say that the Elements as a whole are frozen. The postulates are an axiomatic crystal, but as we proceed through the chapters, which propositions are proven and in what order turns out to be a judgement call. There is a dependency graph, but it is weakly ordered, having propositions with a canonical sequence that could be permuted without damaging the chain of proof. 

I believe, and no proof of this belief will be forthcoming, that the Pythagoreans froze the order of chapter and verse in the Elements through the process of argument. Logical argument, where logic was applicable, since if a proof relies upon another proof, then the reliant proof must come after the supporting proof. Where this could not resolve the conflict, rhetoric was employed. No doubt some of these conflicts were simply resolved by declaration of the eldest and wisest. That is what arbitrary means. 

I have spoken of crystallization and freezing, without elucidating the difference. Both involve reduction of temperature, after all. The difference is that freezing is a matter only of temperature, while crystallization also requires purity. It is a hard point of physical fact that the lowest temperature for a given substance require it to be flawlessly crystallized, or it simply cannot be achieved. The flaws endlessly contest the structure of the lattice, and the entropy cannot be dispelled. 

Hoon and Arvo can be frozen through the versioning process that C. Guy Yarvin has proposed. I am here to argue that Nock must be a crystal, and that in its present form, it is less than perfectly ordered. 

I place Nock within the great post-Euclidean project of crystallizing the theory of number, as Euclid crystallized the theory of form. It is the high water mark of that project. We are discussing the most important intellectual question of our age.

I intend to make the case that the Ax automaton has a lattice more pure and inviolate than that of Nock 5k. That is very much a topic for its own polemic, and one I have yet to produce. I can only apologize for keeping you waiting, dear Reader. 

If Nock may be rendered self-evidently perfect, we have a real achievement. Fossilization at an extremely low temperature would be a tragedy. Imagine generation after generation of eager students. Imagine the day that their mentor teaches them what a troll is, as preparation for explaining why 0 is the nominate for logical Truth. The conversation spirals off into a discussion of runway, crowdsourcing, and the particulars of Silicon Valley culture in the Late Capitalist Age. A bit of light goes out of their eyes, never to be recovered. We owe our posterity a better future.

It is only fair to conclude this treatise with an introit to the next. Turing Equivalence is well established. Now consider this ordering: Nock, Brainfuck, Befunge, Malbolge. I assert that there is a property which allows us to order those four computational automata, in that order; that the property is clarity, and that, with Ax introduced, the ordering is Ax, Nock, Brainfuck, Befunge, Malbolge. To which I must add: Bahlasti! Ompehda! ΑΠΟ ΠΑΝΤΟΣ ΚΑΚΟΔΑΙΜΟΝΟΣ!