## `~ponmep-litsem`
~bismeb,

Thanks a lot, i think it is a lot clearer now what kind of vision we have for Urbit. 
Several remarks:

I am not attached to SPA just for the sake of it. I think it is very important for Urbit 
to have unified (in looks and dynamics) way to build interfaces. I see it as a groundwork on which other types of UI could be developed upon, taking that as a reference. 

The thing I would be catious is that it does seem like vanilla JS/HTML/CSS is going to be a thing of the past when it comes to building robust interfaces. While I don't think Urbit should jump the ship just yet and adopt the coolest framework out there (until the new Cool Framework will supplant it), I think we should be ready to accomodate both vanilla HTML/JS/CSS UIs, as well as other types of development.

After I complete Plato, I hope to write a short demo article on how to build stuff in Elm for Urbit. I think that removing the need for CSS & HTML in favor of strongly typed DSL which always gives predictable layout is going to be a huge thing. But even if it will be supplanted by even something better, I think it is good we are able to accomodate this.

Another thing, it is difficult to implement any moderately complex application using the spaghetti of HTML CSS and Javascript. Would writing Gmail esque application be possible using the combination of Udon, Html and JS? I think so. The question is whether the person who is going to write it will appreciate that the only way to do so would be to stick together a large amount Udon files mixed with React components. Most probably it would end up being a pure SPA masquarading as and embedded using <compenent>.

While we should definitely be providing aesthetic guidelines (which to large degree are self-imposed through the usage of Hoon), I think Front End is an area when by providing more we gain a lot: the amount of people doing Front End development in Javascript esque languages is huge. Just by providing them with outlet (Hey, look here! By using this one weird trick you can write an Urbit app in your favorite framework!) we tap a large pool of possible contributors. I think it is trivial to say that Urbit will die or live by its Frontend (not to belittle the actual Urbit OS). If successful, most people will probably never know what's inside, but they will use Urbit's UI everyday. 

So on the one hand, we should be putting a lot of thought into development of UX. On the other, I don't think we should insulate Urbit from changes going on in Front End technology in favor of strict "HTML/CSS/Udon + maybe some react compenents" approach. I think we should keep our options open. 