## `~docmeb-fignev-dasfex-daptyl--ralsur-hadwyn-dozbep-marzod`
James, thanks for your interest!  Unfortunately all your Slashdot links are broken for me at the moment.

It is always a struggle for me to answer a question like "does Urbit have X," because the question is always: at what layer?  Lazy evaluation is a perfect example -- we could have put lazy evaluation in Nock or even in Hoon, but instead we left it as an exercise for the reader.

There is truly nothing new under the sun in system software.  But there are styles and tendencies.  One tendency I think we can agree existed in early distributed-systems designs, where "early means" 70s and 80s, maybe even a little 90s -- I think of systems like Amoeba and Emerald -- is a tendency to construct complex, fine-grained system semantics across nodes.  Such as a distributed-dependency build network, process migration, etc.  I also think of Croquet as basically in this tradition.  Anything that makes you think of phrases like "distributed garbage collection."

For better or worse, these systems did not prosper and were widely outcompeted by the much cruder Unix.  Unix in turn found a way to use only one of its ports, in only one direction -- begetting the Web.  This retrogression needs to be explained, if we are thinking of going back to the past (and why shouldn't we?).

The fact is that even Unix, and earlier/more ambitious systems even more so, was very oriented toward trusted networks and/or LANs.  Nothing interesting became a successful service on the public wide area.  Only the stupid survived.

My background is definitely the Unix world, and I always want to push semantics out of the core and up to the programmer.  Making Urbit less stupid is always a proposition I approach with great trepidation.

That said, one general principle I want to enforce (and that is currently enforced, or at least aimed at patchily) is: any remote resource you can read, you can also track/subscribe to.  Preferably with a subscription lease/timeout, so that we don't think of phrases like "distributed garbage collection."  Can this lead to effective distributed dependency graphs?  Maybe, but these graphs would be emergent idioms that, from Arvo's perspective, would exist as patterns of use and not system features.

Another way to say this is that Urbit is actually very Unixy in ways.  It exports a very simple rigorous interface to the network -- which in Urbit at least is typed and signed.  There is a one-way poke with end-to-end acks, and a streaming read-only subscription.  Even a one-time read is a special case of a subscription.  A poke has no return value except for error notifications, nor does it even have an endpoint name -- the content-type defines the endpoint.  Really as minimal a design as I think is usable.  And each node, though defined functionally, is a completely imperative state machine.  And there is no suggestion of anything like distributed data structures, distributed computations, etc.  "Simplicate and add more lightness."

~sorreg-namtyv