## `~mastyr-harlud`
For those unaware, ~fitseb is referencing [Nock, Hoon, etc. for Non-Vulcans (Why Urbit Matters](https://www.popehat.com/2013/12/06/nock-hoon-etc-for-non-vulcans-why-urbit-matters/) published in December of 2013.  

[Akamai Technologies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Akamai_Technologies), from the Wikipedia entry, is "an American content delivery network (CDN) and cloud services provider headquartered in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in the United States. Akamai's content delivery network is one of the world's largest distributed computing platforms, responsible for serving between 15 and 30 % of all web traffic. The company operates a network of servers around the world and rents capacity on these servers to customers who want their websites to work faster by distributing content from locations close to the user. When a user navigates to the URL of an Akamai customer, their browser is redirected to one of Akamai's copies of the website."  

If I'm not mistaken, ClarkHat is essentially saying that when an Urbit network becomes populous and active, content distribution across it (and, accordingly, across geolocations) will happen automatically due to the underlying architecture of Urbit and its network. The type of redundancy and performance provided currently by companies such as Akamai-- which cost so much that an entire billions-dollar sub-industry is propped up, ClarkHat mentions-- will become obsolete thanks to the "feature" being built into Urbit itself.  

~palfun might be able to describe an example better than I could, perhaps using `:talk` as an appropriate context. Meanwhile, I'll have a stab at it:
- Urbit's address space is hierarchical by design
- Hierarchy (top down): `~zod`, galaxies, stars, planets, comets
- All urbits (lowercase 'u' to denote a single instance of the Urbit OF running on a single physical machine) run the same OF software although the user data and roles are different
- Data "percolates", so to speak, through the hierarchy, as urbits request and receive data
- All urbits are servers of data (Urbit is your "personal server', after all)
- Packets flow via the hierarchy (never venturing further than necessary to retrieve desired data)
- Thus, redundancy is automatic
- Expensive CDN companies lose inherent value as their main function is automated away

It all boils down to a sort of liberation of data; rather than huge silos which need to be hooked up to elaborate CDNs, the network *itself* will be the CDN, just like BitTorrent.