## `~migsyr-worner-nampex-divper--nortyd-dacwyl-linfur-tarnux`
I agree that, strictly speaking, '"turn", "roll", "skip" are any more semantically detached than "map", "fold", "filter"' is a true statement, but for me at least it misses the point that ~littel was trying to make.

The fact is that, whether we like it or not, "map" and "fold" &c. are well established terms for programming concepts that are re-used even across very different languages. Many of us have been using them for a long time and thus we incur the cognitive overhead each time we reach for them of saying in our heads, "map, map, what's that again? oh, yeah, turn." Its like when they change keyboard shortcuts you have been using for years. Your fingers take a while to adapt.

Now, that may be the *point*, and I'm ok with that. but let's at least clearly state that as being one of the goals of the "unusual" naming.

In terms of identifier length, as someone who starting coding in the days of 6 character max variable names and 8 letter max db table names, &c. I would say that is not something I recall fondly. Large programs were a nightmare to comprehend.

There is an unfortunate tendency in some coders to become enamored with extremely "clever" and hard-to-read solutions as if this is a mark of good code somehow. (code golf) I think one of the reasons perl fell out of favor was that the "better" a coder got, the more incomprehensible his code was. That just doesn't work if you want people to seriously collaborate on doing big things. Code is read more than it is written. I hope we don't go that route.
 
~winter-paches