## `~docmeb-fignev-dasfex-daptyl--ralsur-hadwyn-dozbep-marzod`
~dasper, we edited your comment -- you've already been warned about promoting Urbit forks on Urbit.  Incidentally, not that ETC is a dictatorship, but the ETC founder owns an Urbit galaxy and is perfectly fine with our decision.

I feel like most of these points have been addressed already, but you're right that hashrate is not an infallible measure of "strength."  It is just evidence of strength.  It takes a lot of evidence to bet on the horse in second place right now.  We wouldn't be alone -- Stampery did.  

But we are simply not close enough to the blockchain wars to make this kind of call.  We also chose OpenZeppelin over Dapphub as a contract base, even though we are closer friends with the Dapphub people and like their approach better in some ways -- for the same reason.

~fintug, it's important to recognize that an "Ethereum address" is just a hash of an ECDSA public key.  Unless ECDSA itself is cracked, nothing that happens to the Ethereum chain affects this.  All we're saying is that (a) Urbit ships are controlled by ECDSA keys, and (b) this ownership is recorded and checked (for now) by the Ethereum blockchain.  Huge amounts of cash will descend on the head of anyone who cracks the ECDSA curve, so we're hardly alone in taking this risk.

There are many bad things that can happen to the ETH chain.  Validating invalid signatures, and deleting the entire chain, seem like two very unlikely outcomes, even among those bad things.

Someone on an Urbit chat brought up the best objection I've seen so far to our scenario for manually migrating off Ethereum in the event of a disaster: what about multisig contracts?  When a multisig owns a ship, its address is not just a hash of the owner's private key.

The answer is that manual migration is a messy and essentially forensic process.  Without emulating the EVM code of a multisig contract, it's public.  Any observer knows what it is and what it means.  Sure, we don't want to have to go there -- this is the case for all disasters.