## `~docmeb-fignev-dasfex-daptyl--ralsur-hadwyn-dozbep-marzod`
~ravhes, none of us is this to get rich.  

There are much easier ways to get rich than building system software.  When I got the first version of a Nock-based language to compile itself, in 2008, literally in the delivery room where my daughter was getting ready to be born, I was certainly not thinking about getting rich.  Moreover, this entire bubble/boom could shut down in a thousand ways tomorrow.  Then we would go back to building system software as we did before.

Also, despite being arguably the inventor of the correct theory of why Bitcoin holds value (bubble theory of money), I've personally avoided holding cryptocurrency.  I wanted to focus on building Urbit and not be distracted by the emotional roller-coaster of the market.  I really, genuinely, have not a single dog in this fight.  Okay, I think I have 0.15 bitcoins somewhere.

And as I think we explained at sufficient length in the post, we are not actually creating a hard dependency on ETH.  We are just using it right now because it's the strongest computational blockchain.  Most theories of blockchain value, mine included, tend to converge on the conclusion that "might makes right" when it comes to hashpower.  And network effect in general.

I share your instinctive aesthetic response.  I think a sense of aesthetics is absolutely essential in system software design.  But smell is an intuitive sense and can often mislead us.  It is necessary to confirm the results with one's left brain.  Some of the best hacks, in the best sense of the word, come when it smells like you're doing something wrong, but you actually aren't.

We did consider, quite seriously, various hacks with various kinds of physical keys, tamper-resistant seals, etc.  This would have been cool.  It would also have been an enormous pain in the ass, with security that's quite hard to get right.

~rapsup,

I could swear I saw one tool that quoted support for ETH but not ETC.  Certainly as you say it's technically trivial.

But every time you are designing systems and choose the exception, not the rule, the user's path gets a little rockier and more interesting, and the user is more likely to blame that on you.  For example, in Nock and Hoon, 1 should be true and 0 should be false -- the "Martian booleans" were just overdoing it.  Even though it is absolutely more elegant that 0 is yes and 1 is no.

~tindus, 

The advantage of the blockchain, any blockchain, is that it's both much more reliable, and much easier to use, than any kind of traditional public record.  Of course a consortium of giant banks can afford to run their own blockchain.  Our administrative resources are very different.

Honestly, I am mostly familiar with technical criticisms of Ethereum, not the political/economic criticisms you cite.  The former are bad enough.  Claims of the latter kind need careful investigation to show that they are not misleading, and it's hard to trust anyone else with that level of diligence.  Again, I think the important assessment is that ETH is stronger than ETC, not that it is more righteous than ETC.  We already agree that ETC is more righteous, so there is not much to prove.

It's true that Ethereum (of either fork) has another advantage: it makes it technically much easier to create a market in Urbit address space.  But only Urbit can create *demand* for Urbit address space.  :-)

~sorreg-namtyv