---
type: post
date: ~2016.10.1..06.02.05..b040
title: Time profiling Urbit in Xcode's Instruments
author: ~lanrus-rinfep
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I remember about a month ago I had a conversation with ~rolsut-rospub about how embarrassing Urbit's performance can be when typing on the command line. As I may or may not remember correctly he said that it wasn't urbit itself that's slow, but more likely something to do with libuv's event handling. Or something. In any case, it seems like a real shame that it makes urbit's performance look and feel worse than it actually is.

I got some stupid heroic idea in my head that I was going to find a nice way to visualise urbit's performance and diagnose the issue. He suggested callgrind while I figured I was going to try the time profiler in Xcode's Instruments application.

Turns out it's as easy as running the urbit executable and selecting the process in Instruments. I can write up a more detailed outline of how to do this if need be.

This is me:

1. Typing 'urbit' slowly
2. Backspacing it slowly
3. Typing 'fdsafdasgfadafdagdahfdghf' quickly
4. Holding down backspace

- [Screenshot](http://protonome.com/scratch/urbit-trace-screenshot.png)

- [Traces](http://protonome.com/scratch/urbit-traces.zip) (you'll need Xcode 8 to explore these)

...as you can see something as simple as that sure does like to peg the CPU at 100%. Anyway, I have to say I can't pretend to know how to interpret this trace (I have exactly zero understanding of u3) so I thought I'd upload what I have and leave it at that.