---
type: post
date: ~2017.4.14..23.32.42..b0da
title: A small systems-programming adventure
author: ~sorreg-namtyv
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

I recently spent a week fixing one memory-corruption bug in `u3`, the Urbit interpreter's noun subsystem.  This was a painful experience, so I thought I'd write it up.  ["I had transformed into a shambling, broken man, kind of like a computer scientist version of Saddam Hussein when he was pulled from his bunker."](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/1311_05-08_mickens.pdf).

Well, it wasn't really a week because it included two days of vacation (or at least, childcare).  And it wasn't really a week-level "full James Mickens" systems bug, to be honest.  (Urbit is Urbit because we never go full James Mickens.)  I'd call it a 7 out of 10 and give myself a C+.  The fix was one line, of course.

The corruption bug is in all versions of Urbit and has been there for well over a year.  While working on decorations, which were very tricky because they required coordinated jet updates, I ran into it and worked around it -- not because working around bugs is good, but because I thought I was working around a known problem in jet aliasing.  (You don't really want to feed a Hoon 146 span into Hoon 147 jets.)

This kraken wakes (on the development branch, `master`) when you build a new pill (boot sequence), and test it by booting a new urbit from the sequence, like so:
```
dojo> .urbit/pill +metal ~zod, =try &
```
If you just save the pill (without `=try &`), you get a pill that works fine.  But if you try, you cry -- Urbit dumps core at step 1-f in the boot sequence, compiling Arvo.  Also, if the `!:` debug settings of the current and new `hoon.hoon` are different, it works -- implying that there's some kind of collision going on.

Naturally, because this bug had shown up after some jet refactoring (just adding various slots to a ++span (ie, a type), which shouldn't be hard but is, and requires perfectly managed staging to boot each generation with the last, with jets for both generations simultaneously live), I assumed that I'd made a memory management error in the new jet code.  

By far the simplest way to solve a problem like this is to scan your diffs by hand.  I did this, with no result.  I didn't trust this result (and in fact I was missing a small, unrelated leak).

So it was time to break out the compass and the pointed stick.  The first step when descending into the underworld is always to set DEBUG=yes in the Makefile, then get a C stack trace with gdb/lldb.  If the gods think it's funny to be nice to you today, you can come up with a replication procedure that yields a *consistent* crash and takes less than three minutes.  Good practice in producing these replication cases is to save a fakezod in the state right before the crash, copy the pier, then trigger it each time from a fresh copy.

The proximate cause of the crash was the `++nest` jet, a span which was not a span -- it was an atom with a curious and varying value, always between `0x1fe9.1140` and `0x1fe9.1150`.  So not quite a consistent crash. But delightfully consistent, really, by corruption crash replication standards.  Pointers were even the same across multiple runs, which is extremely helpful when instrumenting your crash case.

Actually this seeming accessibility made the bug harder to find, because it convinced me that I could find it with a compass and a pointed stick.  I was also convinced that I'd created the bug, rather than just waking it up, somewhere in the difference between `master` and `coherent-cords-f`.  This meant that code in a compiler jet had either created a bad span, or mishandled its use counts so it became free and could be corrupted.

So my first course of action was to instrument the compiler jets with lots of selective printfs (easy if you have consistent pointers, consistent hashes, or both).  This did not show me creating the bad noun.

When a noun is crap, the question is always: who created this noun?  Who has handled it?  Usually when a noun becomes corrupted, it has been freed at some point in its life.  If not, someone has scribbled over it, but this is very rare with Urbit's extremely simple fundamental structures.  

Again, with a predictable pointer address, or a predictable mug, or both, you can put printfs where nouns are created, referenced, dereferenced, etc.  You can also put `abort()` there, giving you a C stack trace, or `u3m_bail(c3__exit)`, which will give you an Urbit stack trace if the fatal code is instrumented with `!:`.

But the problem isn't always on the bad noun itself.  For a while I was convinced that mug (short hash) collisions were being handled badly, and in fact our FNV mug algorithm (due to be replaced with Murmur32, in another James Mickens commando operation) does seem to throw more collisions than you'd expect, even in a 31-bit hash.  If `0x1fe9.1147` isn't the noun that should be there, great, but maybe noun A got swapped with noun B and `0x1fe9.1147` is just the leaf at tree address `250` in noun B.   Nouns do not have pointers to their parents, so even finding these parents is quite nontrivial.

All this produces a *lot* of leads, true and false, which can be pursued with crude hand tools.  The reason I spent so long on this bug is that I was constantly convinced that crude hand tools were about to find it.  In fact, crude hand tools did find it, I just ignored it at first.

It turned out then the cell containing the mystery value had been freed, correctly, by the equality unifier `u3_sung()`.  But it still had a use count pointing to it.  

Equality unifier?  Every noun has a lazily computed mug (short hash), but this is not a cryptographic hash.  When we find two nouns with unequal hashes, we know they are unequal.  When we find two nouns with equal hashes, we have to walk the whole tree to compare them.  We want programmers to think of `=` as an O(1) operation, and generally it is, but in the case of true duplicates it's O(n).  Duplicates are double trouble -- they both waste space, and cause these horrifyingly slow collisions.

So if we're going to walk this tree, we might as well rewrite the pointers from one noun to point to the other.  Then we amortize the cost of cleaning up the duplicate into the cost of creating it.  What kills you is comparing duplicates over and over ago.

In any case, the corrupted cell containing the bad value had been freed by equality unification.  However, there was still a live pointer to it.  This meant a use count violation.  Use count violations can often be found by crude hand tools -- but a noun can get linked and unlinked *a lot*, and it's quite tricky to figure out who's mishandling it.

These hand tools revealed, or at least appeared to reveal, that the extra link to the bad noun had been created *before* running the reboot.  At least, no such link was created during the test lifecycle.  So I had to move all my hand tools to a totally different phase of execution.

At this point I sighed and decided to wake up the internal GC (used for debugging purposes only).  In theory you can run urbit with -g to activate the GC, but in practice you need to go in and turn off the cell allocator in `allocate.h`.  Also, I had never run the GC on master or, in fact, recently at all, which is another clear instance of malfeasance -- memory hygiene should be maintained continuously, since two memory leaks are more than twice as hard to find as one.

I had resisted this because all the GC tells you is what nouns got undercounted or overcounted.  It doesn't really tell you where the bug is.  You still have to find the bug, with a compass and a sharp stick.  I already knew what noun was being undercounted, but now I had to find it in a different execution phase.

But fine.  I turned on the GC and discovered... a couple of small memory leaks.  A leak is of course the opposite of an undercount.  I found these, with a compass and a sharp stick -- one of them was in the compiler jets I'd changed, another was in a contributed jet.  After fixing them, the whole boot phase which supposedly created the undercount was... perfect.

Often it's looking in the wrong place, and finding nothing, that forces you to actually understand the problem.

The problem was a design defect in `u3_sung()` itself.  Urbit has a memory-management model designed around its event-driven structure; it allocates memory in nested regions, each of which has two allocators that grow toward each other (like stack and heap in the classic Unix design).  The twist is that when we nest an inner region inside an outer one, we reverse the direction of the two segments, so that the permanent storage of the inner region is the transient storage of its parent.

When an inner or "junior" region points to an outer or "senior" one, reference counts aren't tracked.  This keeps us from constantly messing with refcounts on deep, old, permanent or near-permanent storage.  For example, nouns created within an event are junior to all nouns that exist between events.

Clearly, when unifying duplicates, if one of the duplicates is junior and the other is senior, we unify in favor of the senior.  If both are junior, either works.  If both are senior?

The `u3_sung` code was, in an excess of zeal, taking two senior duplicates and unifying them in their own road.  Unfortunately, if one of the duplicates is freed (as this noun was), it may have live, untracked junior references to it.  The whole point of not tracking references to old memory is that old memory doesn't get freed.  If it does... so, like all bugs, it was a stupid bug.

I realized this not in front of a computer, but sitting at a bus stop on my way home.  I got home and changed "continue" to "return."  It worked.