---
type: post
date: ~2017.8.4..16.42.22..d7ba
title: API Connector for Tumblr
author: ~poldec-tonteg
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Behold Martians, a way to get your sweet sweet content out of Tumblr and into Urbit. Consider this the Mariel Boatlift, but Castro is a furry and it's cyberpunk gifs and Sartre quotes in lieu of Cubans. 

https://github.com/vvisigoth/tumblr-urbit-api

*Note* The Tumblr API docs do not accurately reflect all responses. I have implemented the major keys of blog post responses, but there are some missing. If you want the "reblog tag," you'll have to work for it ;)

## Install

- `|init-oauth1`
- enter tumblr api endpoint `api.tumblr.com` and your consumer key and secret for [your app](https://www.tumblr.com/oauth/apps)
- try `+https://api.tumblr.com/user/info`

## Connector commands

To see the information for the authenticated user

```
:dojo> /+  tumblr
:dojo> .^(user-info:tumblr %gx /=tumblr=/user/info/tumblr-user-info)
```

To see posts for a blog

```
:dojo> /+  tumblr
:dojo> .^((list post:tumblr) %gx /=tumblr=/blog/<identifier>/posts/tumblr-blog-posts)
```

To see all posts, you can also run the generator with either a blog identifier
or the `@t` 'dashboard'. The latter will show the latest posts from your dashboard.

```
:dojo> +tumblr/feed <identifier|'dashboard'>
```

## Dev Notes

All in all, building at API connector from scratch is a great experience that I recommend for all young Hoonigans. You really get an appreciation for the hoon/connector/lib and the design patterns that go into the connectors. I am more bullish Doing it somewhat right (which this may not be) requires you to deal with sur/ lib/ mar/ app/ and (optionally) gen/ , as well as get used to how Urbit deals with HTTP requests and JSON. 

You will %nest-fail. 

~master and I have discussed "Let's Build an API Connector" as the possible subject of a tutorial/doc. Let me know if you think that would be useful.


