---
type: post
date: ~2017.2.5..21.19.58..d7da
title: Talkpolls, vote soon!
author: ~palfun-foslup
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Over the past two weeks I've been working on talkpolls, strawpoll functionality embedded into the %talk we all know and love. Sure, we could use the [strawpoll.me](https://strawpoll.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/218979828-Straw-Poll-API-Information), but where's the fun in that? Instead, let's shoehorn native support for polls into talk itself!

## Code

If you're here for code, check out [the talk-polls branch of my arvo fork](https://github.com/Fang-/arvo/tree/talk-polls). It has rough spots, needs some refactoring, a bunch of bugfixes and testing, and further cleanup. It's already functional, but a pain to use due to a nasty bug. Code reviews are always welcome, but you could also wait until the pull request. Do as you see fit.

## Functionality

I'm making this thread to discuss the details of talkpoll functionality. Below is a description of the functionality that is currently (or almost) implemented:

#### Polls as messages

Polls are their own message type, `speech`es with the tag `%pol`:  
(Whether I refer to "a poll" or "poll results", it is sent via this message type.)

```
      $:  $pol                                          ::  poll
          id/@ud                                        ::  id on polling ship
          question/@t                                   ::  poll question
          answers/(list @t)                             ::  poll choices
          votes/(list @ud)                              ::  vote counts
          settings/policy                               ::  poll settings
      ==                                                ::
```

Aside from the obvious question and list of answers with list of vote counts, each poll has a `policy` which contains its settings. Let's take a look:

#### Configuration

```
++  policy                                              ::  poll options
  $:  votes/@ud                                         ::  max choices
      revote/?                                          ::  vote editing
      close/(unit @da)                                  ::  closed after
      clear/?                                           ::  results before close
  == 
```

We may want to allow an arbitrary maximum number of choices. For example, a poll asking "what vehicles do you own?" will want to allow for users to select both "bike" and "car" answers. A poll has an optional closing date, after which votes will no longer be allowed. You can also specify if poll results should be viewable before that date.  
Defaults are 1/n/~/y.

#### Poll management

Starting up the generator `:talk|poll` (found in `/gen/talk/poll.hoon`) opens up an interactive wizard for creating and editing your polls. (It's more of an apprentice though, pretty bare-bones.)  
When making a poll, it asks for a question and any number of answers, then steps you through policy configuration, which uses the defaults (described above) if you just mash return. At the end, you have the option to have the newly created poll sent to a talk station right away.
When editing a poll, you enter its ID number and are stepped through policy configuration again. You won't be able to edit the max choices though, for this may invalidate previously cast votes.

Polls are stored in talk's state (`++house`) as a list of `poll`s. They are identified by their index in this list. A `poll` in state is slightly different from what's sent as a message:

```
++  poll                                                ::  poll data
  $:  question/@t                                       ::  poll question
      answers/(list @t)                                 ::  poll choices
      voters/(map ship (set @ud))                       ::  ships with votes
      settings/policy                                   ::  poll settings
  ==   
```

Votes are stored as voters with their votes to allow for vote editing.

#### Poll interaction

Interaction with polls, which is simpler than creating/changing them, happens via talk's own prompt. We have two commands, `;poll` and `;vote`. The former requests poll results to be sent to your current talk audience, the latter allows you to cast your vote on a poll.  
Selecting a poll, required for both commands, is done as either `~ship id` (the "polling" ship and the poll's id) or via a message selector, like `;3` or `;;;`, which then selects the poll (if any) associated with that message. Votes are passed as a comma-separated list of your choice(s).

After casting a vote, you should get a message telling you whether the vote has been accepted or not. (Reasons for refusal are closed polls, too many options selected, editing not allowed.) (This confirmation message is not yet implemented.)

When posted to talk, a poll comes prefixed with a `_` (vague representation of a "blank"/"empty checkbox") and then prints as much of the question as fits on a single line. (I would've gone with `?` but that's a bindable glyph. Can it become reserved for poll messages or nah?) Selecting the message prints the usual details, followed by the uncut question and a list of its answers. If the policy allows it, poll results are displayed with the amount of votes (and their percentage) per choice. Instructions on how to vote are displayed, and any parts of the policy that may be relevant (close date, editing allowed) will also be printed.  
Example:

```
          ~zod_ Do you want talkpolls?
>=
--------------| ;
? -1
0v6.vjmvb.0jofo.vp9du.uvbpv.ogpbh at ~2017.2.5..21.01.33..dc4b ~zod to '+' %ps /poll

Do you want talkpolls?
 0) Yes
  1 votes (100%)
 1) No
  0 votes (0%)

To vote, ;vote ~zod 0 your,choice(s)
Max 1 vote allowed
Votes may be changed
Poll closes ~2017.2.12..20.59.52
```

## Troubles and questions

Polls are identified by their index in the state's polls list. This means polls cannot be deleted, cannot be manually given a specific identifier (integer or otherwise) and will always be sequentially numbered. On the one hand, being able to ID polls with customizable strings might be nice but on the other, if you have no need for this, it just becomes an extra step in poll creation. Polls ID'd with "asdasdf" are not at all friendlier than those with a numerical ID.  
Is all this a problem, or is the current implementation fine/good?

Related to the above, poll management is wacky. Policy configuration is "complex" enough to be better off in a wizard generator, but the generator can't access talk's state to tell you about all the existing polls. Ideally you want to show a list of polls and their ID's at the start of the wizard, but I don't think there's an easy way to do that?

The talk prompt commands work in a sense, but "break" your talk's prompt and don't send pokes to ships that aren't yourself. Further discussion [here](https://urbit.org/fora/posts/~2017.2.2..00.13.22..ad21~/).

Polls store votes paired with their voters (to allow for vote editing). Because of this, voters need to trust the poll host or not care if the host sees their votes. Is this a problem? Do we want to only store votes as a map if editing is allowed?

Anyone can request poll results, and they will be sent to whatever audience the requester has active. This is great as a poll-host for sending a poll to all places it needs to go. It sounds a bit abusable by non-hosts though. Do we want a policy flag for "allow results requested by others"? If they're available, users will want to see intermediary results, and making them dependent on the host for that ("send the results again pls") seems like a bad experience.  
Perhaps those who request results should just get them printed to their local shell? But then poll distribution could be done by the host only, which may be a bit troublesome for getting results across multiple timezones (not everyone reads all the backlog).

No doubt that I've made some weird/incorrect/challengeable assumptions while developing this. If anything of the above raises concerns or questions, please do tell!

## Looking ahead

I had hoped to have this implemented and pulled by now, but turns out this is a bit more difficult than I had initially expected. Full-time work starts tomorrow, so progress will be even slower from then on. I'll be pushing more incremental commits to the branch linked above, so keep an eye on that if you want to follow progress.

I'm hype for talkpolls, and I hope you are too. Any and all feedback is very much welcome, let's make this into something good together. Let me know what you think!