---
type: post
date: ~2017.12.7..07.33.36..5d5e
title: Urbit app development - a case for anything but Javascript
author: ~fabryg-posseb-nishul-saprut--missyd-ridwer-dozsen-marzod
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

As some of you may have noticed, I have started developing Plato - a codepen for hoon and nock
[screenshot](http://i.magaimg.net/img/21tw.png)

After coding a frontend prototype in React I took a step back, and asked question: why Javascript?
I have been programming since around middle school. More on the systems languages side, C, C++,
but also a plethora of other languages. I never had an extensive exposure to JS and frontend development, but now spending some time I think it is _horrible_. It is the current year, and why do we even use a language without a static type checking. The cryptic run-time errors, no type checking make vanilla JS repugnant to anyone with even short exposure to, shall we say, Hoon.

Not to mention the that JS is a monstrosity, akin to 1 million arms Hindu goddess.
To even start doing anything I had to comb through 8 different libraries, each of which sucked around thousands of different dependencies from npm. 

Now, don't get me wrong. JS is universal language of the Web, it is good we have it. But maybe in the same sense that assembler is universal low-level language. 

"JS is Nock of the Web" (though ugly and huge compared to Nock)

With the Nock having a clear advantage of having Hoon existing.

Fortunately, quick google search revealed than in addition to cheap shims like CoffeeScript, there is also a very good functional language competition, called Elm, made specifically as a frontend language. 

Elm has a couple nice features:

- It does away with the npm hell, thousands upon thousands of packages
  which can break at any time.
- It is a functional programming language which compiles to javascript
- It has extensive core libraries.
- Static type checking.

Now Elm is just one particular example of a good language designed to replace JS.
Even though it seems to be well received by so-called javascript gurus, i make no claim 
with respect to if it is the best choic.

In the broader picture, I would like to discuss the following questions:

+ Ideally, what should we strive for in the Urbit ecosystem wrt. frontend development.
  I know we are getting the new urb markdown language.
+ Will it benefit Urbit if we encourage a specific choice for writing frontends,
  or maybe leave it to the user.
+ In the ideal world, would we like to have a JS -> Hoon/Nock compiler, and
  what benefits would that bring. 
+ With Web Assembly becoming a viable compilation target in the coming years,
  how would that affect our long term goals. Hoon/Nock -> WebAsm, and 
  ability to run Urbit in the browser?

~ponmep-litsem
