---
type: post
date: ~2017.2.19..05.44.45..248b
title: Spaces in blockcord parsing
author: ~ponnys-nacwer
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

There's something suspicious with the parser on the doccords branch. I suspect it is `++iny`, but I'm not sure.

The following minimal example compiles:

```
    |%
    ++  in
      ''':set operations.

      core whose arms contain a variety of functions that operate on `++set`s. its
      sample accepts the input `++set` to be manipulated.''':
      ~/  %in
      |_  a/(tree)
      +-  all
        '''
        logical and.
        
        computes the logical and on every element in `a` slammed with `b`,
        producing a boolean.
        '''
      --
    --
```

To emphasize something which might not make it through the markdown parser: On the line in `+-  all` between `logical and.` and `computes the...` in the blockcord, the "blank" line is actually four spaces.

If you replace those four spaces with an empty line, it fails to compile. But then if you make other modifications, things get weird:

- Commenting out the line `~/  %in` while leaving a blank line in the blockcord compiles.
- Commenting out the doccord on `++in` while leaving a blank line in the blockcord compiles.
- Replacing the door (`|_  a/(tree)`) with a normal core (`|%`) while leaving a blank line in the blockcord compiles.

I am completely at a loss to explain these results. My current hunch is that there's a problem with the internals of `++iny` because the code is rather ugly, is doing all sorts of manual addressing, it was code invoked inside `++qut` which  wasn't touched in my doccord patch and the syntax error is on the final newline of the proceeding `logical and.` line.

(Right now, I'm continuing my project to copy all the documentation into `hoon.hoon`. I'm just going to ensure there's whitespace for the current compiler--this can easily be deleted when the root cause of this is discovered.)
