---
type: post
date: ~2016.8.3..03.27.07..5f06
title: My bunting turlingdromes
author: ~ladhut-docfyn
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Lately I've been looking into a fix for [#205](https://github.com/urbit/arvo/issues/205) and related bunt issues. This did *not* turn out to be as simple as I'd hoped, so I thought I'd write up my understanding of the problem so far.

To recap, bunting a mold directly sometimes returns a different value than bunting it indirectly:

```
> *?($x $y $z)
%x
> =<  *.  ?($x $y $z)
%z
```

On the surface, what we're seeing here is a discrepancy between ++bunt:al, which generates code to produce a mold's bunt value, and ++clam:al, which generates a gate to *normalize* an arbitrary noun to the mold. (Technically ++al operates on *tiles*, not molds, but I'm using the terms interchangeably because a tile is just a compile-time representation of a mold.) In both cases ++bunt is handed an %herb tile, but cases like the first one where the %herb trivially wraps a mold are handled by just recursing with the inner mold. Otherwise ++bunt falls back to kicking the clam, hence the potential difference in behavior:

```
> (?($x $y $z))
%z
```

Bunting a fern (untagged union) like `?($x $y $z)` produces code roughly equivalent to

```
?:  &
  %x
?:  &
  %y
%z
```

which of course evaluates to `%x`. Clamming it produces a gate like

```
|=  a/*
=/  b  %x
?:  =(a b)
  b
=/  b  %y
?:  =(a b)
  b
%z
```

which falls through to `%z` if `%x` and `%y` don't match.

So all we need to do is reverse the order in which ++clam generates cases, right? Well...

### That which is null may never die

```
> *?($x $$ $z)
%x
> =<  *.  ?($x $$ $z)
%$
```

Clam gates are generated with a sample mold of `*`, which bunts to 0. So kicking the clam for a fern containing 0 will never hit the fall-through case, unless 0 *is* the fall-through case. A similar problem exists with kelps (tagged unions). Their :ifat test replaces an atomic sample with [0 0], and since the subsequent dispatch is tag-based, any %leaf with a 0 tag gets picked up in preference to the others.

```
> *$%({$x *} {$$ *} {$z *})
[%x 0]
> =<  *.  $%({$x *} {$$ *} {$z *})
[%$ 0]
```

So flipping the clam order doesn't even suffice to fix #205.

I'm assuming the desired behavior here is that a) kicking a mold produces its bunt, and b) :book and :pick molds bunt to their first case. If so, then 0 can't be privileged, which means the clam sample needs to vary depending on tile.

The obvious solution would be to generate clams whose sample is the mold's bunt. But cooking up the right bunt is exactly the problem we're trying to solve! I tried this anyway, but ran into trouble with the %herb case. If clam samples are bunts, then the bunt value is sitting right there at good old +6. But to get it, we have to evaluate the %herb twig. And since we're doing so just to get a sample, we need to evaluate it *before* the clam we're generating the sample for has even been called. AFAICT, this way lies infinite recursion. I couldn't come up with a simple case to trip it, but I blew the stack when compiling any non-trivial chunk of code with the +6 trick in place.

So at this point I'm hoping I've either missed something or overconstrained the solution, because now it starts to get weird. If we can't use 0 or the bunt for our clam samples, then all that's left is generating a sample guaranteed *not* to fit in the mold, and relying on normalization to give us the bunt. (This wouldn't work for non-standard bunts of non-`*` molds that cover the entire noun space, but I can't see that mattering in practice. And you could always just write your own gate-with-custom-sample if it did.)

If all we have is a tile, then cooking up an antibunt is impossible, because %herb twigs are basically useless without a subject span. So ++al would need to be folded into ++ut, and the buc runes would need to become natural. Then ++clam could use ++play to get ahold of a tile's span, use that to create an antibunt (not hard for any realistic span), and use the existing ++whip logic with fern/kelp cases reversed to generate the body.

But wait, there's more!

### Deviance of normalization

```
> *tanq
recover: dig: over
```

++whip:al generates broken normalization code for certain legitimately-recursive molds. ++tanq's problematic case happens to come last, but it's not order-sensitive in general, and can even break on in-mold nouns:

```
> *|-(?($a {$b $} $c))
recover: dig: over
> (|-(?($a {$b $} $c)) %a)
%a
> (|-(?($a {$b $} $c)) %c)
recover: dig: over
```

This also seems unfixable without pulling ++whip into ++ut (or placing additional restrictions on molds). But given a subject span with which to detect recursion, the non-default cases could conceivably check non-recursive cell components first and return units instead of same-or-different nouns, bypassing the recursive calls whenever possible. Direct recursion in the default case (eg, if tanq's pair case came first) could result in a nice compile-time error instead of a stack overflow.

Am I on track here, or did I go off the rails somewhere along the way? I'm actually kinda hoping for the latter.
