---
type: post
date: ~2016.11.16..19.25.51..8bcb
title: New mounting engine
author: ~sorreg-namtyv
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---


The current way we mount Urbit `%clay` desks is good but not
quite perfect.  So we're improving it.  No previous knowledge
of Urbit or `%clay` is required.

## Basics

`%clay` is Urbit's revision-control system.  The normal flow for
editing `%clay` trees is to mirror them within the home
directory, or `pier`, of your urbit.  The Urbit process watches
this directory and detects changes automagically.

## Changes from the old system

One unnerving aspect of the old mounting system was that Urbit
would write into your mount directory silently and without
warning.  This is not the Unix way.  The result: users developed
a standard workflow that involved working in a scratch directory
outside the Urbit pier, then copying files in by hand.

In the new mounting system, you can either edit (read-write)
or mirror (read-only) a target Urbit desk.  An editing mount
creates a one-time, nonce-named editing desk.  Your edits are
saved to this desk, either automatically or manually.  A commit
then saves from the editing desk to the target desk.

Presumably the target desk is itself a "feature branch," so the
flow is:

```
Unix working tree -> 
Urbit editing desk ->
Urbit target desk <->
Urbit upstream desk
```

You can still update your editing desk from your target desk and
propagate that into your working tree, but that's a rare and
manual operation.

Also, all ordinary workflow operations are performed by Unix
operations, not Urbit operations.  You never have to touch the
Urbit command line to mount, commit, etc.

## Filesystem mapping

So how do we map an Urbit revision-control system to a Unix
filesystem? 

### Prefix: global namespace

A global name in Urbit is `[ship desk case]`. 

A `case` is like a version; we don't encode it in normal paths,
because we are only mounting the present tense.

A `desk` is like a `git` branch.  We always need to encode this.
The root of a normal mount path is `$pier/$desk`.

A `ship` is a global identity.  Each pier is the brain of one
ship; Urbit doesn't notice what you name the pier directory in
Unix, but naming the pier for the ship it contains works well.
Often this name is long and we don't want to type it twice.
So we encode foreign ships, but not our own name.

So there are two kinds of prefixes: `$pier/$desk` for the home
ship, `$pier/.../$ship/$desk` for foreign ships.  Domestic and
foreign mount directories are otherwise identical, except that
you can't edit a foreign desk!

### Infix: deep mounts

A desk can be mounted at its root, or at any subtree.  If you're
interested only in some subtree, just mkdir -p it and work there.

Urbit never makes or notices a Unix directory node.  Its
semantics are solely driven by the set of files that exists --
the leaves on the tree.  When you want to put a file somewhere,
just `mkdir -p` the directory.  

### Suffix: typed files

`%clay` is a hierarchical tree with path strings, like Unix.  But
it's not quite the same.  There are two basic problems in mapping
a `%clay` arch to a Unix filesystem, for read or write purposes.

The first problem is that a Unix inode can be either a file or
a directory, but not both.  An `arch` in `%clay` can be a file, a
directory, or both; but not neither.  The second problem is that
`%clay` is a typed filesystem.

We solve both problems in one step.  We give each file a dot
extension which reflects its Urbit type (`mark`).  If we have an
arch named `foo`, we store its data (if any) as `foo.extension`,
and its children `bar` and `moo` as `foo/bar` and `foo/moo`.

(The tradeoff this design makes: it's a convention for mapping
Urbit data into Unix, not Unix data into Urbit.  We assume there
is relatively little demand for the reverse mapping.)

What's the extension?  There are two options.  In some cases,
like a text file, we have a 1:1 mapping between Unix file format
and `%clay` mark.  In these cases, a file named `$name` is stored
as `$name.$unix`, where `$unix` is the Unix extension.

In other cases, we can't identify a 1:1 mapping.  In these cases,
the Unix file is named `$name--$urbit.$unix`, where `$urbit` is
the Urbit mark.

Urbit also needs a policy for what to do if a Unix filename is
not a valid Urbit `$filename.$extension` (or if the file format
does not validate).  The policy is: we ignore the file.  So we
ignore all classic Unix dotfiles, for instance.

## Dotfiles

The Unix user controls Urbit via dotfiles.  The Urbit process
watches the dotfiles and reacts to them.  They are not valid
Urbit files, so from Urbit's perspective they don't exist. 
But the Urbit interpreter process can still see them.

There are four kinds of dotfiles in an Urbit mount directory:
control dotfiles, command dotfiles, status dotfiles, and feedback
dotfiles.  They all have names starting with `.ur-`.

All the data in the dotfiles is simple.  They should eventually
be driven by shellscript commands, so that Urbit feels like a
normal Unix utility.  But they can be easily edited by hand.

### Control dotfiles

A control dotfile is an empty file which you just touch.  Urbit
never modifies or deletes a control dotfile.

Control dotfiles: `.ur-mirror` activates a mirror subtree;
`.ur-edit` activates an editing subtree; `.ur-auto` activates
autosave in an editing subtree (changes to working files are
automatically saved to the editing desk).

A mirror can be locked to a case -- touch `.ur-mirror-$case`.

Creating a `.ur-edit` file creates the editing desk.  Data
already in the working tree will be overwritten.  Deleting
`.ur-edit` erases the editing desk (immutably -- we won't reuse
the nonce).

### Command dotfiles

A command dotfile is a file which you write a command into.
Sometimes the command is empty.  Urbit notices that the dotfile
has appeared, applies the command, and *deletes the file*.

If you're in an environment with concurrency issues, you can put
a nonce in the filename: not `ur-$command`, but instead
`.ur-$command-$nonce`.

Command dotfiles: `.ur-save` saves the Unix working tree to the
Urbit editing desk; `.ur-commit` merges the Urbit editing desk
into the Urbit target desk; `.ur-update` saves the working tree,
then merges the target desk into the editing desk.

`.ur-save` and `.ur-update` are empty files.  `.ur-commit`
contains a commit message.

### Status dotfiles

A status dotfile is a read-only file that mirrors some Urbit
state.  

Status dotfiles: the `.ur-mount` file at the root of an editing
mount contains the name of the editing desk.

### Feedback dotfiles

A feedback dotfile is a read-only file that Urbit appends to.
Delete the file to show that you've accepted the feedback.

Feedback dotfiles: errors are logged in the `.ur-error` file.