---
type: post
date: ~2017.4.7..06.37.22..c960
title: From doccords to decorations
author: ~sorreg-namtyv
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

When `~ponnys-podfer` suggested adding docstrings (or, Urbit being Urbit, "doccords") to Hoon, I thought it was a great idea.  It seemed like a relatively low-hanging fruit that could be easily taped on the side of Hoon, without disrupting the already somewhat slippy cc-release schedule.

The first two parts of this assertion were true.  Nonetheless, I felt a little unsatisfied as I looked at the result of `~ponnys`' work.  I had more or less directed the architecture, so all the architectural mistakes were my fault.  The first draft wasn't *bad*.  But it was all too obviously taped on the side.

Well, TLDR: I've spent the last three weeks integrating literate programming into Hoon at a much more fundamental level.  This did not turn out to be an outpatient procedure.  But I feel the result is much more satisfying.  It is not satisfying to the schedule, but damn the schedule!

`~ponnys`' original idea was just library documentation built into the language syntax, so that an automated parser can turn source code directly into programmer manuals.  Not at all a bad idea, and increasingly a baseline in modern languages -- even just as an informal convention within comments.

But when I think about it harder, I'm not even sure reference documentation for programmers is the most important use case for literate programming in Urbit.  I think *data transparency* may be even more important.

Right now, your urbit feels like way too much of an opaque blob.  Even when the blob is running your own code.  The irony is that this whole blob is within typed data structures.  And the double irony is that when you wrote those data structures, you actually wrote a short comment describing every part of the structure.

But... the parser threw away that comment.  So you don't have it.  So you can't actually *inspect* those structures in any kind of realistic, practical way.  Even when you know the types, looking at a data structure without any context isn't that useful.

And we have to remember that *Urbit is a database*.  This is not just transient state that can be rebooted away.  We are managing typed data structures persistently.  Without decorations, we're managing them in a way only machines, not humans, can understand.

Can Urbit live without this feature?  Yeah sure.  But in the long run, and maybe not just the long run, Urbit can't live without contributors.  And contributors can't contribute without a frozen language and coding conventions.  Changes of this magnitude can be made later -- but they become much, much more expensive.

Literate programming doesn't put a lot of design strain on the Urbit type system -- although even mild changes to core compiler data structures can be quite painful, thanks to our brittle old jet system.  It does put a lot of strain on the syntax.  And strain on the syntax feeds back into the semantics.

In fact, this creative strain produced a major architectural improvement in Hoon.  But let's talk about decorations first.

The goal of the decoration system is to take all the informal comments we see in today's best-commented Hoon files, and turn them into structured premium content which survives in the type system (ie, `++span`).  For instance, the first doccords draft added a `++span` case `[%help wain span]`.

It might seem as if annotating `++span` only solves the data description problem, and ignores the library documentation problem.  But of course, in Hoon the library is the subject.

More broadly, we need to annotate both the *nouns* and their *names* (arms and faces).  Any name, any structure, needs to be explained.  Or at least, explainable.  

And as much as possible, we should preserve our existing comment style.  (In particular, I do not think there is any other language which can express its data structures as clearly and concisely as a page of Hoon molds.)

Most Hoon nouns are described by a mold.  The exceptions -- the one-offs, you might say -- are cores and other subjects.  Clearly every mold is a data structure and deserves an explanation.  And we also want to decorate every arm of a core, and every face we add to the subject.

This brings us to two problems.

Problem one: we can't possibly fit a complete documentation system into the grammar for every arm, face, mold, etc.  These syntaxes are already very tight.

And in any case, it's not really the nature of decoration to fit well in the parse tree.  Decoration is inherently applied as a post-parsing transformation on the tree.

Usually this transformation is fairly local.  But it doesn't have to be.  For instance, we often want to define a bunch of faces in a block of text above a block of expressions:

```
:>  foo: a variable 
:>  bar: another variable 
:>  moo: a third variable 
:> 
=/  foo  something 
=/  bar  something 
=/  moo something 
```

Parsing this clearly involves either a stateful parser, or a postparsing traverse.  We had neither a stateful parser library (though the parser probably should have a generic state) nor a generic twig traverser.  

The latter seemed easier.  And given that there are like 100 cases of `++twig`, we only want one twig traverser.  The result is `++walk:ap` (which incidentally worked the first time it compiled).

There are a number of cool things you can do with a good state traversal function.  One of them is pretty-printing twigs.  And `++walk` is a good state traversal function.  It's not even super slow.  (It takes about half a second to fully rebuild the hoon.hoon AST).

So this is decoration in a nutshell: (a) sticking a documentation slot on every face, arm, core, etc, in ++span; and (b) traversing the twig to apply it.  Neither hard in theory.

Parsing is also an interesting challenge.  We have a convention of right-margin comments starting at column 57.  It's easy to visually navigate a big file by this right margin.  We'd like to not change the layout too much.

It's relatively straightforward to parse one or more decoration lines *before* a tall twig.  (Wide form need not apply.) Afterward... well, the grammar is some of the oldest code in Hoon.  With a rewritten grammar, it would probably not be a problem.  

However, to support trailing `:<` decorations, we end up backtracking over most of the whitespace in the file, and slowing down parsing by about 50%.  This is not a tragedy, though, since parsing time is under 20% of compilation time.

So that's the first problem -- a relatively mechanical one.

The second problem is more interesting.  The problem is: decorating a mold and decorating a regular twig are *not the same thing*.

When we decorate a mold, we of course want to decorate the *product* of the mold.  We're not terribly concerned about the gate itself.  When we decorate a regular twig... well, we could support the %help equivalent of `(^+`, but why?  Use a mold.  The only relevant case is decorating a core.

And syntactically, we don't have a way to distinguish between molds and non-molds.  Which is `(pair term @)`, for instance?  This raises the specter of a separate decoration syntax for decorating molds, cores, chapters, arms, etc.  Yuck.

So this problem is the reason Hoon has two syntactic forms for a pair, `[%foo %bar]` and `{$foo $bar}`.

If we can disambiguate these syntactic modes based on context, we can both apply the decoration correctly, *and* disambiguate the syntax.  Essentially, decorations force this problem to get solved.  But can it get it 

Well... what's frustrating is that almost everywhere, the two forms are disambiguated by context.  There are two places where they collide: at the start of an arm, and in a functional mold construction like `(list @)`.

So why not just special-case both these cases?  So an arm producing a mold is now `+=` instead of `++`.  And we simply add a special-case syntax to catch all the normal cases of mold construction.  If you really need to use an irregular mold constructor, wrap it in `$;()`.

Some of us may remember when you wrote `(list ,[p=@ q=@])`, instead of `(list {p/@ q/@})`.  `(list {p/@ q/@})` still works -- there's no rush to get rid of it.  All this is backward compatible.  But now you can write `(list [p=@ q=@])`, which is clearly the optimal syntax...
