---
type: post
date: ~2016.8.17..21.04.11..1450
title: Galaxy ops
author: ~wicdev-wisryt
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

There's no need to get your galaxy running on the network yet, but someone asked how to do it, so I wrote up some notes on the process.  Something like this should end up in the official documentation somewhere.

- Get your key into arvo/ames.hoon
  - Start up an urbit ship.  This doesn't need to be connected to anything, so I usually use a fakezod (`bin/urbit -cFI ~zod pier` to create).  This shouldn't talk to the net, but if you're paranoid you can run this on a machine with no internet access, etc.
  - Run `+pope ~gal` (I'll use ~gal for your galaxy name throughout).  It'll ask for a "passphrase", which can be any entropy.  We recommend at least 512 bits of entropy.
  - Press enter twice, and it'll generate a fingerprint and a generator, both in the form 0wXXX.
  - Save the generator, it can generate your public and private keys.  You will need to use this when you first boot the galaxy in each continuity era.
  - Add the fingerprint to the line with your galaxy in `arvo/ames.hoon`.  If had an old key there, it's invalid because we swapped out the crypto.  If your line ends with "(oldkey)" in the comment, delete that.
  - Send a pull request to https://github.com/urbit/arvo with your change, and verify to the maintainers that you are indeed the rightful owner of the galaxy.  This verification step is ill-defined, it basically comes down to "convince us", but that's because we can currently just revert the PR if there's a problem.  That won't be the case after the testnet phase.
- Get a server set up.
  - Find a server to use.  AWS, Digital Ocean, and Google Cloud Platform are common choices.  Remember, you can move your urbit between machines easily, so don't sweat finding the perfect server.
  - Make sure your firewall accepts connections on the correct UDP port.  Your port is 13337 + galaxy-number, where galaxy-number is the number of your galaxy.  If you don't know your galaxy number, run `(add 13337 ~gal)` at an urbit.  You can verify this by booting a fake version of your galaxy (`bin/urbit -cFI ~gal pier`) and reading the UDP port.
  - gal.urbit.org needs to point to the ip of your galaxy.  Tlon manages *.urbit.org, so let us know what DNS record to add.
- Start your galaxy
  - Clone urbit/urbit, and clone urbit/arvo inside of the urbit repo and name the directory 'arvo'.  In other words, the arvo repo should be named "arvo" and a sibling of the Makefile.
  - `bin/urbit -cI gal pier` to create, and `bin/urbit -I gal pier` to start afterwards.
  - On creation, it'll ask you for the generator you saved earlier.
- Running a galaxy
  - Ticket stars just like a planet tickets moons:  `+ticket ~star`.  Unlike moon tickets, these tickets are a function of your private key, and are permanent, persisting across continuity breaches.
  - If you want to use a planet from your galaxy, but you don't want to ticket one of your stars, note that galaxies also have 65,535 direct child planets.  To find them, run `` `@ux`~gal `` (those are literal backticks) to get your galaxy's number in hex (we'll pretend it's 0x5f).  Your direct planet children are all the hex numbers of the form 0xXXXX.005f except 0x0000.005f.  To find their names, try, for example, `` `@p`0x1234.005f `` (again, literal backticks).  When you find one you like, you can ticket it like normal.
  - You will not by default get arvo updates from ~zod or any other ship.  You can either manually keep your galaxy up-to-date or set it to sync from ~zod with `|sync %base ~zod %kids`.
- Troubleshooting:  If nobody can talk to you
  - If there's been a continuity breach recently, you need to start your pier from scratch.
  - Make sure you're fully up-to-date, including the "urbit" repository, the "arvo" repository, and the pill.
  - Check that gal.urbit.org points to your ip.
  - Check that you're listening on the correct UDP port (if not, you probably forgot the `-I gal` option when starting urbit).
