---
type: post
date: ~2017.3.11..16.21.42..7e20
title: BM: Bot Manners
author: ~palfun-foslup
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Because responsible parents teach their creations what is and isn't okay to do in talk.

Those who've seen Talkbot around in talk will be familiar with the way it presents its messages. Whenever possible, it prefixes everything it says with `::`. Those who've looked at hoon will recognize it as the start of a comment. I chose this because a bot its messages are generally not directly part of the discussion, they're just small comments that help enhance it. A consistent "quirk" in writing like this may also help tip people off they're not dealing with a human.

But for actions (@-messages, "/me") it looks a bit weird. For links, a prefix is straight-up impossible. The former can be solved by not using talk's CLI interface, but the workarounds end there. Bots simply don't have a way to identify themselves as such.

Before we continue, I'll note that I'm not 100% certain we actually *need* something like that. I personally think it'd be really nice to have, and will be a huge help in content filtering for both users and bots themselves. But if all solutions we can come up with rely on their programmers to set that flag somewhere in the code, nothing's stopping them from not complying (just like with the current `::` prefix). Is that a problem? Probably not. If it is, it's present in more places than just sending correctly "marked" messages. But this requires some discussion.

One might suggest treating all comets as bots by default, maybe whitelisting comets you know to be nice humans. Comets are there for bots to use, after all! ...But they're also there for users who want to float around anonymously. Viewing all comets as bots by default may discourage this use case, which I don't feel is the right thing to do. That should be up to policies set by communities, not some standard.

Instead, I'm tempted to propose a flag (in `++thought`?) or message type (in `++speech`, `{$ato p/speech}`) for automated messages. Not only bots/comets are able to send automated messages, I may have an app on my planet that posts talk messages in relation to certain events.

I had originally intended to discuss other aspects of bot behavior, but if they can operate within the realm of automated messages that are indicated as such, that may become moot.

Thoughts?