---
type: post
date: ~2017.6.29..19.48.19..6a1e
title: Taskk Redux or, Towards a Front-End Design Pattern
author: ~poldec-tonteg
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Friends, Martians,

I have recently completed rewriting the trello-esque issue tracking app, taskk, using React+Redux. The code is [here.](https://github.com/vvisigoth/taskk) I'd very much appreciate 
all hoon and es6 heads picking it apart and, hopefully, helping me learn from my mistakes. The hoon, I'm afraid, reminds me much of a birds nest 
that has been assembled from pieces of twine and old shoestring. From one perspective, functional. From another, trash.

The purpose of this post, however, is to share my thoughts on some methods of connecting a React front end to a simple gall app. 

## What is React+Redux?

React prides itself on being just a view library. It is not trying to tell you how to change or store state, this it leaves up to you. An admirable feat of scope control, but it allows the novice a bit too much rope. Redux is (I get the lineage messed up) a library which implements the Flux (tired yet?) data architecture, which encourages you to have one global, immutable store and to interact with it through actions which trigger pure functions. 

The rub, of course, is to figure out how we in the real world interact with icky impure (from the front-end POV) APIs and make sure that the React and gall apps are satisfactorily in sync. 

## Enter urbWare

I looked into thunks, but I honestly couldn't bear to wholly abandon urb.js with its various conveniences.

The best method I hit upon to sync between Redux and Urbit involved using the standard Redux method of applying [middleware](http://redux.js.org/docs/advanced/Middleware.html). This
small piece of middleware (dubbed urbWare.js) intercepts actions being sent to the Redux store. If they are actions that require interaction with the gall backend, the appropriate calls are sent via window.urb.send It also registers a "listener" function which listens on a subscribe path for updates from the gall app. When a response is received from an Urbit action, the appropriate UI actions are sent along to Redux, which causes the React front end to update.

Take a look at the [code](https://github.com/vvisigoth/taskk-ui/blob/master/src/urbWare.js), it's the only place in the app where calls to urb.js are made. Hopefully you get an idea of what I was trying to do here. And of course, comment!

A few small notes things:

- Whenever there was a symmetry behind a UI action and a gall action, I named the gall action type `URB_<ACTION>` and the UI action type `<ACTION>`. This keeps everything straight and legible.
- For this app, my entire API was json (mark-less). This is not ideal. Better apps use marks for the various actions and one could easily see there being a trifecta of UI ACTION, API ACTION and /mar file. Conceivably one could build a Redux+Gall interface from the "marks up," as it were. Maybe even generate it programmatically, hmm...
- I found it useful to have a global "loading" reducer that simply tracked if the front end was waiting for something. This is very simple right now, but could be improved to be more granular.

