---
type: post
date: ~2017.5.24..03.49.12..b410
title: Celebrating the star sale
author: ~mastyr-harlud
navsort: bump
navuptwo: true
comments: reverse
---

Hi everyone,  

I know many of you, like myself, are now proud future star owners. While we wait for tickets to be sent, I thought I'd resurrect an old fora post: [interesting planet names](https://urbit.org/fora/posts/~2016.8.23..23.51.14..1563~/) and revise it to work for stars! Before doing so, though, I recommend reading `~master-morzod`'s post, as it provides a fairly detailed tutorial on how to generate planet names, the underlying fundamentals, and nice step by step instructions. Thanks to `~master-morzod`, from one `~mastyr` to another.   

### Seeing stars

Stars are children of galaxies; planets are children of stars. There are `2^8` galaxies and each one may distribute `2^8 - 1` stars, so, if no stars had previously been issued, we would have `65.280` star names to shop from. Not a bad selection, imho!  

We know stars are 8-bit numbers whose least significant 4 bits are its parent galaxy. The Hoon standard library provides everything we need to run a few lines and shift a few bits to generate all the possible star names we could ever want. So, let's open the `dojo` and get to it.  

We will use `turn`, `gulf`, `|=`, `zing`, and `scot` to set a `dojo` variable to a list of lists of stars (one list per galaxy). Then, we'll flatten the list of lists into a simple list using `zing`and, finally, write the list to a `stars.txt` file. For the impatient, here is the complete set of commands you can run:  

```
> =p (turn (gulf 0x0 0xff) |=(a/@ (turn (gulf 0x1 0xff) |=(b/@ `@p`(cat 3 a b)))))
> =q `(list @p)`(zing p)
> *%/web/stars/txt (turn q |=(a/@p (scot %p a)))
```

##### Line 1

Line 1 sets a variable `p` to the result of a nested `turn` call. From (the docs, 2b: list logic)[http://urbit.org/docs/hoon/library/2b/], `turn` is accepts a `++list` `a` and a gate `b` and produces a list with the gate applied to each element of the original list. So, in this case, `a` (or just the first parameter of our `turn` call) is the list of numbers ranging from `0x0` to `0xff`, which is what `(gulf 0x0 0xff)` returns. `(gulf a b)` produces an inclusive list of numbers from `a` to `b`. Each element in that range will have the second parameter, `b`, applied to it and subsequently added to the list which will be produced and assigned to `p`. So far, if we think like a procedural programmer, we can say something along the lines of: "for each number in the range 0 to 255, apply the function (gate) and return them as a new list." However, as you might see, the gate which we are applying to each number in our range 0-255 itself includes a nested `turn` which *itself* takes a range 0 to 255 and applies a different gate to them. A nested `turn`, or a double for-loop in procedural programming terminology (but much better for a number of reasons, of course). The inner `turn` actually produces the stars we're looking for by concatenating the bit bloqs `a` and `b` (as defined by each gate), with their specified size of 2^*3*. Documentation for `++cat` is (here)[http://urbit.org/~~/docs/hoon/library/2c/] and for `++bloq` is (here)[https://www.urbit.org/~~/docs/hoon/library/1c/].  

Alright, *phew*, there's Line 1. It produces something that would look like this, if you were to print it to the dojo by running `> p`. But you probably shouldn't do that unless you'd like to watch your Urbit consume massive amounts of CPU and slowly print every one of the `65.280` stars to the screen.

##### Line 2

Line 2 flattens the list by promoting every element of each inner list to the outer. `++zing` documentation is (here)[http://urbit.org/~~/docs/hoon/library/2b/]. Note here that we must cast the result of `zing` to a `(list @p)` first before we can use it.  

##### Line 3

Line 3 writes our text file to `%/web/stars/txt`, which should be `<your urbit ship>/home/web/stars.txt` if you've run these commands in the `dojo` from your `home` directory, by applying the "pretty print" gate `scot` to each item in the flattened list `q`. Of course, we want the ship names printed to our text file, so we use `%p` as the first parameter (sample?) of `scot`.  

### End

Aaand... That's it! I hope this helps some new Hoon users like me out there. For the rest of you, it might be fun to use this thread as a place where we can play around with the star list. If you have any interesting Hoon snippets to contribute, please do so! Certainly, they could at least be sorted... ;)

Best,
`~mastyr-harlud`
