## `~ravped-mastel-sopmud-natreg--dismyl-litryx-dozdux-binzod`
(This is the OP-er)  The canonical elevator pitch is 10 seconds, i.e. long enough to explain it on an elevator ride, after someone says "What're you working on?"

After chewing on this for a while, the privacy angle is indeed not the right angle.  I was listening in on some people who had deactivated Facebook recently, or were considering it.  The complaints were many, like the way it's a complete time suck, it's as blingy as MySpace was, and the stuff it serves up to show you seems totally arbitrary.

The problem I think they're discussing is that everything about Facebook is designed, tested, and refined to maximize revenue for Facebook.  And your eyeballs and your time are the products they're selling to advertisers.

Which suggests to me the Killer App for Urbit: a complete separation from your data and the user experience.  Facebook works the way it does because it's effectively holding your data and your contacts hostage, and using them to extract your attention.  And it sells your attention to advertisers.

In contrast, with Urbit, you own your data and you provide your own connections.  Since it's being used by humans, the real value of any network exists in the UX.  But once you control your data, your relationship with the people providing the UX is completely different.  They have to provide you a good experience or you take your data elsewhere and bolt on a different user experience.  You want bling?  You got bling.  You want Swedish minimalism?  Someone can serve you up the Ikea of online experiences.

(Actually I think reputation will ultimately be the Killer App.  But for this, we're back to a 45 minute elevator pitch.)