## `~boldex-finbud-fabdys-lavnyl--pinfex-bicnym-dozlyd-marzod`
Another note: The only changes to arvo which require a new pill are changes to the `/sys` files. For developers who find themselves working on the absolute bleeding edge, pulling GitHub changes down frequently and booting fakezods with them, the following should be helpful:    

Sometimes there's a lag between changes to `/sys` files on GitHub urbit/arvo and the soliding and uploading of its corresponding new pill to urbit.bootstrap.org. In the case that the newest pill is incompatible with the newest GitHub changes, one may perform the following:  

1. Boot a fakezod using the last known working arvo and pill combination.
2. Copy in the most recent files from GitHub's urbit/arvo/sys directory to your fakezod's `%/sys` folder (after `|mount %`, of course; this also assumes you're sticking with a single arvo branch).
3. Run `.urbit/pill +solid` to manufacture your own fresh pill. The pill will appear in `<path/to/your/urbit>/.urb/put` folder on Unix.
4. Use your new pill for booting nice, fresh fakezods with the newest arvo changes without having to copy in `%/sys` files manually from GitHub (unless they change again since soliding, of course, in which case one would need to perform these steps again if a corresponding pill is not yet available on bootstrap.urbit.org). 

These actions should rarely need to be performed, but I thought I'd post them anyways in the case that someone needs a fresh pill but can't get it yet from boostrap.urbit.org.
---

This brings us to the other issue with pills at the moment: lack of automation to handle soliding new pills once `%/sys` files in a GitHub urbit/arvo branch have been changed. AFAIK, this is kind of a crufty issue that could be "solved" with a hacky Bash script or two, but it'd be even better to use Urbit's GitHub API connector to solve it in a manner more Martian. Thoughts?