## `~master-morzod`
I've updated the [PR #216](https://github.com/urbit/arvo/pull/216) -- it's now
functionally complete as a proof-of-concept.

I have a bunch of questions/notes about potentional refinements and next steps:

### `dill` interface:

##### `dill-blit`

- Should the output/prompt blits be always styled? 

```
{$out p/stub}
{$pro p/stub}
```

I tend to think yes; having two separate prompt blits seems really ugly. And if
prompts will always be styled, I'm less inclined to have two separate output
blits.

- there's a layer violation in the dill ANSI conversion

`$hop` blits need to know the details of the style conversion to correctly
offset the cursor. This could be resolved if the conversion happened in term.c,
but then you'd have an implicit interface change in the semantics of the `$hop`
number.

##### mold design

- Should `++stub` just be the pair?

```
++  stub  (list (pair styd (list @c)))                  ::  styled tuba
```

Transformation code needs to reference the pair, separate from the list. What
are the "best practices" here?

- Should `++stub` effects (++deco) be a list?

```
++  styd  (pair (set deco) (pair tint tint))            ::  decos/bg/fg
```

`p:*styd` is *logically* a set, but it seems easier and more idiomatic to
use lists for structures that will be processed in C. (the list should still be
deduplicated). This is basically a forward-compatibility question...

### sole/drum interface:

- `++sole-effect` change is temporary

The sole-prompt caption should remain a `++styx`, but the `$klr` `++sole-effect`
should be temporary -- that output should go through `$taq`.

- layer violation from `$hop` applies here

`++ta-vew` has to calculate cursor offsets, and therefore needs to know how ANSI
conversion will be performed. Similarly, `++se-just` needs to understand the 
conversion so it can correctly offset the buffer.

The transformations in drum are mostly irrelevant in the long term; they should
be handled through `++tanq`.

### `++tanq`

I'm still not clear on the semantics of `++tanq`, but here's my guess:

- `{$~ $~ p/tape}` is a line
- `{$~ p/(list tanq)}` is a list of lines
- `(pair @tas tanq)` is a caption, applied to each line as a prefix

Switching to `{$~ $~ p/styx}` is easy enough, but there are some pretty
fundamental questions outstanding:

- would the `++tanq` engined (`++qe`?) render to ++stub?
- what (if any) line-wrapping features would it include?

### next steps

How should this feature be advanced? It seems to me that progress can be made
before all the design questions are resolved.

For instance, the kernel-level changes (mold definitions, `dill` implementation)
can be added without any disruption to speak of.

The sole/drum changes are mostly temporary, however. Should those be held-off
until questions around `++tanq` are resolved? Or is it worth merging them for
temporary exploration?

Should ANSI conversion in `term.c` be viewed as a future optimization, or should
that be prioritized?