## `~palfun-foslup`
So, something very funky seems to be happening here.

To send the data to all servants, you find their bones using `prey`. Ordinarily, that works. For some reason though, gall is associating those bones with the right subscriber ships... but with the wrong app.

What causes the `%need` crash is the fact that instead looking for the `%sink-servant` application on the servant ship, it's looking for the `%master` application on the servant ship. Why? When the subscription happens, gall messes up the creation of the path associated with the bone, pointing to the peer-receiving app rather than the peer-sending app.

Curiously, subscribing to differently-named apps happens *all the time*. If this were truly straight-up broken, the system wouldn't be able to function. Why this hasn't occurred in the system, yet occurs so consistently for this application, we have no idea right now.

At least, that's what I think is happening. Not a gall expert, and diving deep enough into it to actually figure this out more would be a huge time-sink. Poorly documented code, and all that.

Temporary workaround to this is to name both your apps the same, so that if it subscribes to `%master` on the servant ship, that application actually exists. Of course, it'd be the `%sink-servant` in disguise.

Of course that's not really an acceptable solution, but it is what it is. Rest assured that this is Fixed In Master™.  
Guess I'll add this to the pile of reasons why our platform isn't yet ready for people doing dev on it.