## `~ponnys-podfer`
Oh man, there's a lot of stuff. I'm just going to ramble about stuff:

* As said previously, I don't believe I *can* distribute the code. Maybe I can come to the Tlon office and do a show and tell?

* The TinyMUD database format uses signed integers. To my surprise, `gth:si` doesn't do what I expected; it just called normal `gth`. This was a fun source of bugs before I figured this out. The entire `si` core doesn't present anywhere as complete a surface as the rest of the mathematical utility cores. 

    But the database uses signed integers in a limited way, using `-1`, `-2`, `-3` as a sort of out of band value. If I were to start over I would have defined something like:
    
        ++ dbref  $%  {$ref p/@ud}
                      {$nothing $~}
                      {$ambiguous $~}
                      {$home $~}
                  ==

    with a gate that matched `|-(@sd dbref)` for parsing, instead of doing what in retrospect was a lot of signed integer handling code everywhere.

* Hoon really needs a more complete standard library. It's not just `gth:si`. There's a general lack of tape processing functions (or maybe just documentation saying they exist), meaning I had to roll my own split, tokenize, remove trailing white-space, starts-with, ends-with, etc. gates.

* I don't see how you do unit testing in Urbit. MangledMUD has a pretty large suite of tests, and it would have been nice to port some of them to show that things were working correctly.

* In general, the documentation is still pretty bad.

* Compiler output is really bad. What's a mull-bonk-b? Over the course of writing this, I hit a bunch of errors that weren't documented in the Troubleshooting section. While I was able to get around them, I never really felt like I understood them. Even things as simple as nest-fails should have more diagnostic error messages.

* `hoon-mode.el`, the emacs major mode, could use a lot of work. (Should be derived from `prog-mode` instead of `fundamental-mode`, the current indentation doesn't work, syntax highlighting is broken for identifiers with `-` in their names, etc.)

* For flavor, here is the same method in both languages. Here's the Ruby original:

        def moveto(what, where)
          loc = @db[what].location

          # remove what from old loc
          if (loc != NOTHING)
            @db[loc].contents = @utils.remove_first(@db[loc].contents, what)
          end

          # test for special cases
          case where
          when NOTHING
            @db[what].location = NOTHING
            return # NOTHING doesn't have contents
          when HOME
            where = @db[what].exits # home
          end

          # now put what in where
          @db[what].next = @db[where].contents
          @db[where].contents = what
          @db[what].location = where
        end

    Here's the Hoon version I wrote:

        ++  moveto
          |=  {what/@sd where/@sd}
          ^-  all:yint
          =+  loc=location:(~(got yint-db db.a) what)
          ::  remove what from old location
          =.  a
            ?:  =(loc nothing:yint)
              a
            =+  loc-record=(~(got yint-db db.a) loc)
            =+  contents-loc=contents:loc-record
            =^  new  db.a  (~(remove-first yint-db db.a) contents-loc what)
            (~(contents-set yint-all a) loc new)
          :: test for special case
          ?:  =(where nothing:yint)
            (~(location-set yint-all a) loc nothing:yint)
          =.  where
            ?.  =(where home:yint)
              where
            exits:(~(got yint-db db.a) what)
          =+  where-contents=contents:(~(got yint-db db.a) where)
          =.  a  (~(next-set yint-all a) what where-contents)
          =.  a  (~(contents-set yint-all a) where what)
          (~(location-set yint-all a) what where)
          
    Note how `if` blocks gets turned into `=. a  ?:  something  a  (modify a)`. That pattern gets repeated through the codebase, since the original is filled with `if` blocks which incidentally modify a variable. Is there a better way to do this?

* The code probably was not organized correctly.

  * The various `/` sigils aren't documented in the list of hoon twigs. This is larger than one file, so I needed to break it up. I put most everything under lib using `/+`, even though most of the code isn't a library shared with other apps. A rune for include this file from an app specific directory would be nice.

  * One thing that I started doing thinking it was clever but then ended up thinking was maybe not correct was using the files as individual cores. For example, I'd write this file:
  
            :: %/lib/server/blah.hoon
            !:
            |_ state/@sd
            ++  something
              ^-  @sd
              state
            --

        and then use it like this:
    
            :: %/app/server/hoon
            /+  server-blah
            ...
            (~(something server-blah --5))
            ...
        
        You can see this pattern in the previous real snippet.

  * I might have overused doors. I don't really get their purpose. I used them like classes, except that meant that every call from one to another was super long. It might have been better to just have a core which took my giant `all` tuple as its final argument instead of passing it to the door.
  
  * I had a tuple called `all` with everything in it. I passed it around everywhere making modifications to it. My code thus turned into:
  
            ...
            =.  a  (queue args a)
            =.  a  (log event a)
            =.  a  (calculate thing a)
            a
            ...
        
        It would have been nice if there was a way to do something like:
    
            ...
            <<sigil>>  a
              (queue args)
              (log event)
              (calculate thing)
            ==
            
        (That said, this would have required me to not abuse(?) doors as much as I did.)
  
  * My importing/export code wasn't a proper mark. It should have been a proper mark. It was just casting to %txt, since the original database format was text files.

* I had planned to send the syslog messages to a local private talk channel instead of just `~&` them.
