## `~palfun-foslup`
>Also, I know the doc (let alone the emacs mode) is not great. But it would be super useful to hear in a little more detail what the worst pain points were.

I am not ~ponnys-podfer, but here's some things off the top of my head from 

* Findability. Primarily: Proper titles in the stdlib sidebar. "a1", "2g" etc. don't tell me a damn thing, and are just downright annoying. To a lesser extent, better sidebar titles in the twigs/runes documentation would be really nice to have as well.  
Obviously you can't throw a query into Google or hop onto Stack Overflow yet for your "how do I *x* in Hoon" needs. If I'm looking for a rune or library function to help me do some thing, I usually struggle to find what I need painlessly. This is compounded by the unfamiliar terminology and not-immediately-informative function names, of which I'm not always aware. Github search is bad, and grep doesn't always find me what I need either.  
Additionally, it might be useful to have "related runes", "related functions" etc. listed. "If you're using this rune to do this, it's easier/cleaner to use this other rune instead!"
* Clarity. While most documentation I've seen so far contains all of the information necessary, I often feel like I'm spending too much energy trying to understand the information presented. Comparisons to Haskell or Lisp don't help me, and while often unavoidable, CS terminology forces me to stop and about the meaning behind it instead of breezing through. Part of that is probably lack of experience with said terminology, usually I just look it up and go "oh yeah that sounds vaguely familiar", but it's still a bit of a hurdle.
* Concepts. I feel like there's a lot to be gained by having a "foundations" series of documentation, from a background information point of view. I see category theory mentioned a lot, and it sounds important to a complete understanding of some of the things you can do in Hoon, but apparently I shouldn't learn it? Why not? What is it even about, in Hoon's context? I guess I'm looking for something along the lines of "advanced Hoon programming concepts", but that's probably way lower priority than other documentation.
* Completeness. Of course, there's still a bunch of stdlib functions that are "XX document"ed. "Okay but how do I use this" still needs to be answered, even if you know a function exists.

Sure, most of the above can be overcome by putting in more time wrestling with the docs (and being less of a whiny baby), but that isn't how documentation should work. It should enable and empower the less knowledgable, not have them giving up.  
Of course, fixing that is much easier said than done.

