## `~palnup-salwyx-mortyl-silfyl--digrel-pitbud-dorsym-livpyl`
> *~dilrus_marzod*
> Can you speak to how current star owners would get spark tokens?

> *~nodlux_marzod*
> What about existing star owners? How would we go about setting up on our Stars on the Ethereum network?

We'll offer some way for you to verify your identity as a star owner and associate your assets with your Ethereum address.  
For people who have unused invites that contain stars, they'll likely provide those invite codes and get an amount of Sparks equal to the amount of stars they're owed.  
For people who have already claimed stars, they'll likely provide star names and matching tickets, and we can then set them as owners of said stars on the blockchain.

Depending on how this is implemented,  the latter means Tlon (being the constitution contract owner) will need slightly more power than just the ability to create galaxies. We have yet to settle on a solution here though.

> *~sarlyt_marzod*
> Fascinating stuff. What course of action would you suggest for a galaxy owner who thinks Ethereum is a ridiculous waste of time and wants nothing to do with it?

What alternative for a trustless, decentralized PKI do you propose?

A few comments above your someone linked to their own fork of Urbit, which is apparently not going to have an Ethereum-powered PKI.

An appropriate course of action for those holding Urbit assets but not wanting to stick with them because of the introduction of a blockchain would be to wait for the blockchain to become a thing, and then sell off their assets.