## `~rovnys-ricfer`
I think needing to check whether the prize has changed should be pushed down a layer into gall, instead of expecting application developers to do this themselves for each subscription. It's also a bit of a red flag to see duplicate code in a trivial example. I can see a couple ways to ameliorate this, and for inspiration it's worth looking at the Meteor web framework's livequery system, which is a similar FRP subscription system. They have a two-level API, with high-level standard publications and low-level custom publications. 

The high-level publication pushes live updates containing a subset of the data in the server's persistent state (MongoDB for Meteor, `brain` in a gall app). The high-level API lets you return basically a pure function of the state, and the Meteor framework itself does the heavy lifting of figuring out what to send to whom over the wire -- updates get sent as diffs, using their  Distributed Data Protocol (DDP).

The low-level publication API gives you finer-grained control over the messages sent using DDP. When the server's persistent state changes, it triggers a re-run of the publication handler, which can send arbitrary "added", "removed", or "changed" messages over the wire to indicate how clients should update their states. This set of messages maps cleanly onto changes to the state of a database, but not as cleanly onto an arbitrary noun comprising a gall app's `brain`. Because urbit is designed to send code over the wire, not just data, it might be better for gall's version of this low-level API to let the user send a function to be run on the client's state in order for it to obtain the new state. Ideally the user would simply define a gate with sample of type `brain`, or maybe `(pair brain delta)`, that produces whatever type that subscription is supposed to produce, and then gall would figure out how to serialize that, send it over the wire, and get the client to run it.

Here's Meteor's publication overview and description of its high-level publication API:
https://guide.meteor.com/data-loading.html

And here's the low-level API:
https://guide.meteor.com/data-loading.html#custom-publication