## `~maldeb-hapben`
I like this post because it's not confused - I'm rarely entirely certain anyone knows what they're talking about when it comes to filesystems and version control. But I think you're being too conservative.

I've read the pushout paper and think that it's the correct way to handle "conflicts" (a word I hate because it sounds like an error... I prefer "options", "ambiguities", etc.).

But I am still taking a higher level view - I'm not entirely sure that a graph is the right structure at all. It certainly appeals to implementors, but it seems to make users, even the ones who are also implementors, go INSANE - and that's not all attributable to git's user-hostility, but the fact that we naturally think of commits as diffs as actions on a codebase, and the user intent of nearly all version control commands is "I want to perform the actions represented by some diff or set of diffs on this working tree".

Rather than a dual-natured *implementation* like you suggest, I kinda want to go further and have an entirely dual-natured system, where logging what the user did is completely separated from transformations on actual data. I haven't sketched this out in as much detail as you have, but roughly speaking, it's like:

```
++  patch  !!  ::  a diff structure, like your ++change
++  patch-store  (map hash patch)
++  reify-patchset
  |=  s/(set patch)
  ^-  node  ::  whatever the fs root node is
  !!  ::  apply a bunch of patches to empty, and get a full fs back
      ::  we follow pushout discipline and don't care if it "conflicts"
::
++  commit  (pair commit-metadata (set patch))
++  commit-graph  !!  ::  and so on
```

...and then our actual algorithms are all darcs-style and operate only on `(set patch)`, and we build the commit graph as a log of *user-entered commands* only - the user was on this `commit` and said to `commit` these changes, so it's a single-parent `commit`, or the user was on this `commit` and said to merge this `commit`, so it's multi-parent - but this can be more flexible than e.g. `git` ever was, because it's divorced from the algorithms. We worry about performance later, and cache reified patchsets or whatever our profiling says to do. Pijul claims to have really good asymptotics on a patchset-style system - I can't read their code, since it's GPL and I don't read GPLed code related to code I might write (GPL ham radio apps are fine, I guess), but I'm not worried about it being impossible.

(I'm ~raplys-lornex, not ~rolsut-rospub - the latter went away with the old @p...)