## `~sorreg-namtyv`
This is great!  It feels quite well thought through, definitely like the start of something real.  You also have more expertise than me on quite a few of these points.

I will just add random comments as I notice things to say, not write one gigantic response.

On the utility of a `%this` merge: it's actually quite useful, because it means "ignore this foolish patch and never remind me of it again."  Or so at least is my theory.

On heisendocuments: I actually do think the righteous path is the path of the heisendocument, which contains all the information in a conflict.

I am not a category theory person and refuse to believe that turning a programming problem into math has ever made it easier.  Programming is math with a good UI.  So I can't say I actually *read* the [blogposts](https://bosker.wordpress.com/2012/05/10/on-editing-text/) you [linked](https://bosker.wordpress.com/2014/06/19/revisiting-on-editing-text/), much less endorse them.  But...

To me a heisendocument means we take the two models a mark has to define -- a data model and a patch model, and add a third: a merge model.   

The merge model might be special-purpose, or general-purpose.  A general-purpose merge  model might be {(each data merge) (set patch)}: a prior revision, and a set of (possibly composite) patches to apply in parallel.

If you can resolve a merge noun to a data noun, that's a clean merge.  Conflict nouns (the noun equivalent of conflict diamonds?) are just merges that can't be collapsed.  You can turn these merges back into data by adding special superpower patches that override conflicts.  And of course, you can convert merge nouns with %ford -- converting a text conflict noun to a Unix text file should have the expected Unix revision-control behavior.

And then: there is no special desk-level merge state; all merge operations always succeed; no information is lost; etc.  Is this not, ladies and gentlemen, superior alien technology?  And all without the use of any category theory at all.

Also, one area you didn't touch on from my %clay screed is extended marks and mark containers/modifiers.  We certainly want to be able to specify *in the mark* that we're looking at a text patch noun, etc.  Certainly, redoing %clay would be the right time and place to extend marks, which already have a pretty painful 1.0 feeling.