## `~sorreg-namtyv`
Yeah, I'm sorry about how hard it is to modify jets.  They really are the oldest code in the system for obvious reasons -- I think some of the compiler jet code goes back to 2012.  (Modifying jets is not actually that hard.  It's just a pain in the ass -- a normal if somewhat primitive C programming environment.)

I avoided using # out of some some superstitious instinct that someday I would need a spare glyph.  It's also nice for syntax debugging, bootstrapping transitions, etc.  But it is, in principle, available.  It's just a question of whether this is the right moment to blow that amulet of resurrection.

Definitely doccords are a patch that should go in, in some form.  Definitely they are neither a nock 10 hint, nor should be parsed by parsing the twig in a `%hold` span (an absolutely blasphemous proposition as far as I'm concerned).  In other words, it is *not* runtime data, and it is *not* source tree data.

While I did propose putting docs on `++foot`, I think the truth is that the right rune is indeed ^:, and docs are either (a) another variant of `%face`, or more likely (b) a new `++span` stem.  A case can be made for (a) but also against it, and (b) is probably an easier change to make.  

Call it `{$dock p/something q/span}`.  With a change of this magnitude it's worth thinking quite carefully about what the `something` should be.  Should it be only abbreviated documentation,
for instance?  Just a single cord?  Or should it scale upward a bit?

If a documented noun of `++span`, we extend the role of `++span` to include (a) noun geometry, (b) queries, and now (c) documentation/metadata.  `~ponnys`' example of a core that describes all its subcores is a perfect example.

But note that in this world, `?` and `#` are in a sense the same dojo operator.  All we're saying with `%dock` is that here is a kind of noun whose type, when we go to print it, we describe with programmer-generated data (documentation) rather than the analytic span printer.  Perfectly reasonable, especially in the case of a core -- where now all we can do is print a hash and an arm count.  On the other hand, it's nice to have a compact, flat print...

Now of course, `?` and `#` (as shown above) have rather different printing strategies.  I don't know quite how to reconcile them.  But deciding they're just different things is not an option.  They're the same thing.  The questions for me are two:

One, what does `?` look like in a world with docstrings?

Two, what is the `++something` in `{$dock p/something q/span}`?

Implementing `%dock` isn't that hard.  Not that it's trivial, but generally you can just copy the code for `%face`.  Where `%face` is almost always a no-op, `%dock` is always a no-op.