## `~naptyv-ticsyp-wordem-rivtyc--hopdep-ritsub-marreg-wanzod`
Urbit's killer feature is its trust network.
'Trust' is a better word for the concept than 'reputation', although 'reputation' is fine as long as we're careful about the fact that we mean 'trust' not 'value'

This talk of upvotes is nauseating.
Do we really want to compete in the Dopamine-soaked trenches of Social Reputation?

Trust is the most fundamental(non-vital) currency.
A perfect trust rating is not "the greatest number of upvotes/followers/repeats" it is in indication that an agent certainly is who it claims to be and acts forthrightly and predictably.

Trust is multidimensional, but let's consider it a single variable for now.

We track trust on a scale of negative infinity to positive infinity.
Let us divide by infinity and say -1t to +1t.

When I encounter a new agent, I neither trust nor distrust him(0t).  If he reveals himself to be a fraudulent telemarketer, I trust him -1t. If he reveals himself to be an apparent fellow traveller, I trust him +0.25t.

I've interacted with ~palfun-foslup enough to trust him +0.5t -- i.e., I fully believe he is who he claims to be. I would meet him for lunch, introduce him to my family. But I wouldn't ask him to house sit for me, at least not before the previous two Rites. (aside: ~palfun, do not be offended by the meager 0.5t, half of infinity is quite a lot of trust. Anyway, the scale is in flux but for the time being, I'm assuming 0.5t is around the upper limit for an almost perfect stranger).

Once  implemented, this trust network enables applications almost unimaginable now.
Consider: Would you use an application that allows you to pick up home-cooked meals from local strangers? Likely not.
But: Would you pick up a home-cooked meal from your aunt? What about from your best friend's mother?
I can think of 40 humans from whom I would gladly accept home-cooked meals.
And importantly: I can think of as many humans whose trust recommendations I would weigh heavily when considering the same.

n.b., In these human networking matters, we care not how many followers, fans, repeats, replies, thanks, waves, or +1's one has. We care only whether an agent should be trusted and to what degree.

~risruc-habteb